:orphan:

Robocop 2.6.0
================
This release focuses on better support for Robot Framework 6.0 and improvements to our documentation and spacing rules.

You can install the latest available version by running::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-robocop

or to install exactly this version::

    pip install robotframework-robocop==2.6.0


New rule ``deprecated-singular-header`` (#697)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Robot Framework 6.0 starts deprecating the singular header forms (such as ``*** Setting ***`` or ``*** Test Case ***``).
Such headers will raise deprecation warning and eventually will not be supported in the future Robot Framework versions.
``deprecated-singular-header`` warns you if you use singular header form.

Indentation rules changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We completely redesigned our indentation rules. Due to this the ``uneven-indent`` was merged into ``bad-indent``
(configuration using ``uneven-indent`` will print deprecation message and use ``bad-indent`` instead) (#504).

``bad-indent`` rule now covers uneven indent (which will result in the warning message) or invalid indent (resulting in
the error message). It is now also possible to use ``strict`` (default ``False``) mode to enforce indentation to be
the multiple of ``indent`` space (default 4).

Tags rules changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``Force Tags`` setting has been renamed to ``Test Tags``. To support this change, Robocop
renamed ``could-be-forced-tags`` rule to ``could-be-test-tags`` and ``tag-already-set-in-force-tags``
to ``tag-already-set-in-test-tags``.
Usage of ``Force Tags`` will result in deprecation warning from ``deprecated-statement`` rule.

Robot Framework 6.0 also added ``Keyword Tags`` which is supported by Robocop with this release (#641).

Issue end location (#290)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Our test framework now supports custom format of the issue - which should help with enhancing the precision of the reported
issues. For now, the ``invalid-argument`` rule has improved precision (properly reporting the beginning and the end of the rule) but
expect more in the upcoming releases!

Documentation improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- improved the documentation generation for rules parameters. It will now show more user-friendly types (such as "bool")
  instead of name of the parser method (#732).
- do not use rule message as the first line in our documentation if the rule message is only templated variable (#733)
- updated sarif config example to use colon delimiters (#747)

Fixes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- unrecognized header is now only reported by ``parsing-error`` and not by ``duplicated-setting`` (#683)
- empty lines and standalone comments are now not counted towards keyword/test length in ``too-long-test-case`` and ``too-long-keyword`` rules (#671)
- comments in the last line of the last keyword / test in the file will not be reported with ``uneven-indent`` rule if their indent is correct (#675)
- external rules documentation should now display templated rule messages properly (#745)
- ``deprecated-statement`` should now work for RF 6.0+

Misc
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- we normalized ``keyword-name-is-reserved-word`` error messages across different Robot Framework versions and
  prepared it to support RF 6.0.
