:orphan:

Robocop 2.8.0
================

You can install the latest available version by running::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-robocop

or to install exactly this version::

    pip install robotframework-robocop==2.8.0

Rules
-----

New W0204 `missing-doc-resource-file` rule that checks if documentation is missing in a resource file. (#776)

Nested argument files (#770)
-----------------------------

Nesting argument files was not allowed before. Now it is possible to import other argument file in the argument file::

    --include some-rule
    --argumentfile base_argument_file.txt

Relative paths in the argument files (#693)
-----------------------------------------------

Argument files now support relative paths. The support was added for the ``pyproject.toml`` files before but it was
missing from the argument files.

It means that argument file can have paths relative to the argument file location::

    content of config/argumentfile.txt:

    --output robocop_output.txt # it will now refer to config/robocop_output.txt
    --ext-rules robocop/rules.py # it will now refer to config/robocop/rules.py

List only enabled or disabled rules #764
------------------------------------------

Robocop can list all rules with ``--list`` option (or ``--list-configurables`` to only list rules that can be
configured). Our every growing list of rules made the output of this command hard to read. That's why it is now
possible to filter rules with ``ENABLED`` or ``DISABLED`` special patterns::

    robocop --list ENABLED
    robocop -i *doc* -i line-too-long --list ENABLED
    robocop --exclude empty-lines-between-test-cases --list DISABLED
    robocop --list-configurables ENABLED

The new feature still coexist with existing feature that allows to filter list output using pattern::

    robocop --list *line*

However ``ENABLED``/``DISABLED`` patterns are more useful when you want to list only the rules that are enabled using
your configuration.

Bugs
-----

Robot Framework 6.0 introduces some minor changes that affected our rules:

- not supported settings uses different error message in Robot Framework now. That's why ``setting-not-supported``
  failed to catch those errors and they were reported as ``parsing-error`` instead
- Task header now uses distinct token type internally. This causes Robocop to not recognize ``both-tests-and-tasks``
  issues
