:orphan:

Robocop 2.9.0
================

This version of Robocop hugely improves the experience of using Robocop
within the IDEs by fixing the locations of rule violations in code, which
in turn results in correct underlining of the issues.

Additionally, we bumped the versions of the dependencies up.

    You can install the latest available version by running::

        pip install --upgrade robotframework-robocop

    or to install exactly this version::

        pip install robotframework-robocop==2.9.0

Precise locations of the rule violations (#290)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The main improvement focused around adjusting the locations
where the rules are violated in the code. More specifically, it improves
where the rule violation starts and ends, meaning that the precise position
is now defined correctly. Thanks to that, the LSP will correctly pass that
information to the IDE you're using and will underline every place that
needs your attention.

Bumped dependencies (#792)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There were some compatibility issues due to outdated packages.
Now, all of them are updated, especially `packaging` now allows to use v23.

Improved internal quality (#652)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A couple of new GitHub Actions have been added to our GitHub CI.
New Black action now scans Robocop code to ensure code quality.
There is also new pre-commit job and additional unit tests.

New E1017 rule for bad indentation in code block (#793)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Old `bad-indent` rule has been split into two:
- the old one W1008 `bad-indent` stays, but it will only detect under- or
  over-indented code. The `ignore_uneven` and `strict` are no longer available,
  but `indent` parameter remains the same, with a new default value of -1,
  which makes it being ignored by default.
- the new E1017 `bad-block-indent` rule that detects invalid indentation
  inside code block like FOR loops or TRY-EXCEPT statements.
