:orphan:

=============
Robocop 3.0.0
=============

This version of Robocop hugely improves the experience of using Robocop
within the IDEs by fixing the locations of rule violations in code, which
in turn results in correct underlining of the issues.

There are backward-incompatible changes to the W1008 ``bad-indent`` rule
and its parameters (described below in details).

This release also drops the support for Python 3.6, and the minimum
required version now is Python 3.7+.

Additionally, we bumped the versions of the dependencies up.

You can install the latest available version by running

::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-robocop

or to install exactly this version

::

    pip install robotframework-robocop==3.0.0

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Most important changes
======================

Precise locations of the rule violations (#290)
-----------------------------------------------

The main improvement focused around adjusting the locations
where the rules are violated in the code. More specifically, it improves
where the rule violation starts and ends, meaning that the precise position
is now defined correctly. Thanks to that, the LSP will correctly pass that
information to the IDE you're using and will underline every place that
needs your attention.

Changes to the locations of the issues may affect the locally used disablers,
and in result may require doing reviewing them and updating. That's why we
decided to release new major version.

Python 3.6 support dropped (#806)
---------------------------------

Python 3.6 is not supported anymore since Dec 23, 2021, it's been already
quite a long time we kept it supported for Robocop. Due to that, we could
not benefit from the features of newer versions of Python and it started
becoming undesired. Also, taking security risk seriously, we need to be
mindful about possible vulnerabilities in our software that are out of
our control, and that may affect us if we use outdated dependencies.

From Robocop 3.0.0 we are dropping the support for Python 3.6, and we plan
to also drop Python 3.7 in the near future, since the scheduled security
support for this version ends on Jun 27, 2023.

Right now, minimum required version for Robocop is Python 3.7+.

Rule changes
============

``misaligned-continuation-row`` rule now ignores documentation by default (#789)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There is a new ``ignore_docs`` parameter added to 1015
``misaligned-continuation-row`` rule set to ``True`` by default, which means
that any violation of this rule within the Documentation will be ignored.
If you want to detect the violations in the Documentation setting or section,
configure this rule with ``-c 1015:ignore_docs:False``.

Deprecated parameters of W1008 ``bad-indent`` rule (#803)
---------------------------------------------------------

Old ``bad-indent`` rule has been split into two:

The old one W1008 ``bad-indent`` stays, but it will only detect under- or
over-indented code. The ``ignore_uneven`` and ``strict`` are no longer available,
but ``indent`` parameter remains the same, with a new default value of -1,
which makes it being ignored by default.

Using ``bad-indent`` rule now prints a deprecation warning in the console
that suggests to replace old parameters with new E1017 rule. The parameters
are still accepted, but they no longer control the behavior of W1008 rule.
The warning will disappear in the next major release.

The new rule is described below.

New E1017 rule for bad indentation in code block (#803)
-------------------------------------------------------

The new E1017 ``bad-block-indent`` rule that detects invalid indentation
inside code block like FOR loops or TRY-EXCEPT statements.

The rule now reports only when the line is under- or over-indented.

Severity for ``bad-indent`` rule can be configured now (#793)
-------------------------------------------------------------

There was a bug (#793) that prevented the severity of the old ``bad-indent``
rule from being configured. It is fixed now.

``bad-indent`` rule now supports data-driven tests (#758)
---------------------------------------------------------

From now on, ``bad-indent`` also properly supports data-driven tests
in templated suites. If you encounter any issues, please report them back to us.

Other features
==============

Improved internal quality (#652)
--------------------------------

A couple of new GitHub Actions have been added to our GitHub CI.
New Black action now scans Robocop code to ensure code quality.
There is also new pre-commit job and additional unit tests.

New bug report template (#801)
------------------------------

The `bug report template
<https://github.com/MarketSquare/robotframework-robocop/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&template=bug_report.yml&title=%5BBug%5D+Title>`_
is now extended to make it easier for the users to report bugs and for us to reproduce them.

Bumped dependencies (#792)
--------------------------

There were some compatibility issues due to outdated packages.
Now, all of them are updated.

Removed packaging dependency (#742)
-----------------------------------

``packaging`` dependency brings a lot of other dependencies and often causes
compatibility issues for us. We only used it for its versioning module for
deciding if the Robocop rule should be enabled for given Robot Framework version.
That's why we have decided to remove the dependency and rewrite version handling
in the Robocop.

Acknowledgements
================

Thanks to the whole community for submitting bug reports and feature requests.
Without you, Robocop wouldn't be in the place where it is now. All the feedback
is essential to drive the tool towards higher quality and better user
experience.

If you want to help us more, consider contributing to the project directly.
We can offer our constant support to make the work fun and effective. We do
our best to create a supportive and welcoming environment for everyone.
Feel free to ping us on our official `#robocop-linter Slack channel`_ anytime.

.. _#robocop-linter Slack channel: https://robotframework.slack.com/archives/C01AWSNKC2H
