:orphan:

=============
Robocop 3.1.0
=============

Several new rules for detecting unreachable code, multiline IFs, empty templates and invalid sections in resource file.
The variable naming rules (W0310 ``non-local-variables-should-be-uppercase`` and W0309
``section-variable-not-uppercase``) were also updated to support nested variables.

This release also contains fixes for W1015 ``misaligned-continuation-row`` rule, deprecating warning not appearing for
rules from ``--configure`` option. Also, the W0704 ``ignored-data`` rule provides better support for language headers.

You can install the latest available version by running

::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-robocop

or to install exactly this version

::

    pip install robotframework-robocop==3.1.0

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Rule changes
============

Rules W0310 and W0309 now handle nested variables (#678)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rules W0310 ``non-local-variables-should-be-uppercase`` and W0309 ``section-variable-not-uppercase``
were previously reporting when the variable had another nested variable with lowercase name,
e.g. `${EXAMPLE_${lowercase}}`.
Now, the nested variable names passed as an argument to one of the keywords `Set Test Variable`,
`Set Suite Variable` or `Set Global Variable` are ignored and if the rest of the name is uppercase, the rules
will not report the issue anymore.
For variables in Variables section, the name still needs to be all uppercase (including
nested variable), because all nested variables in this section need to be global anyway.

New rule for detecting unreachable code (#810)
----------------------------------------------

Added new rule W0917 ``unreachable-code`` for detecting if there is a code after
``RETURN``, ``BREAK`` or ``CONTINUE`` statements, on the same scope level.

For example::

    Example Keyword
        FOR    ${animal}    IN    cat    dog
            IF    '${animal}' == 'cat'
                CONTINUE
                Log  ${animal}  # unreachable log
            END
            BREAK
            Log    Unreachable log
        END
        RETURN
        Log    Unreachable log

Also, old W0901 ``keyword-after-return`` rule no longer detects ``RETURN`` statements,
only the keywords after ``Return From Keyword`` and when there is code after ``[Return]``.

New rule that reports when inline IF is split into multiple lines (#804)
------------------------------------------------------------------------

New W0918 ``multiline-inline-if`` rule that detects when inline IF is split into
multiple lines. It's allowed, but it should be avoided, since it decreases readability.
It recommends to use normal IF/ELSE instead.

New rule for invalid sections in resource file (#525)
------------------------------------------------------

New E0415 ``invalid-section-in-resource`` rule that reports invalid section used in the resource file. Resource file
cannot contain ``*** Test Cases ***`` or ``*** Tasks ***`` sections.

New rules that report empty Template and Test Template (#443)
--------------------------------------------------------------

Added new W0530 ``empty-template`` rule that reports ``[Template]`` setting without value.
There is also new E0529 ``empty-test-template`` that reports empty ``Test Template``.

Fixes
=====

Fixes for rule W1015 `misaligned-continuation-row` (#821, #818)
---------------------------------------------------------------

Fixed a case (#821) where rule W1015 `misaligned-continuation-row` was failing due to the
continuation of the keyword starting with a comment at the beginning of the line::

    *** Test Cases ***
    Robocop Crash Example
        Run Keywords
        ...    Log Message     1   AND
    # ...    Log Message     2   AND
        ...    Log Message     3

Another bug (#818) was reported for the case when there was a properly indented comment
in between the statements, like this::

    *** Test Cases ***
    My Keyword
        ${arf}  Create List   1  2  3
        # ...  4
        ...  5

Which cause the rule to be incorrectly reported in the last line of the example above
even though it's aligned properly. It is now fixed and the rule does not report in such case.

Fix for deprecation warning to appear also when configuring deprecated rules (#819)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a deprecated rule was configured using a `--configure` CLI option, the deprecation
warning was not displayed. This is now fixed, and the warning appears for all rules
explicitly configured, included or excluded through a command line options.

Fix for language header reported by ignored-data (#825)
-------------------------------------------------------

Language headers at the beginning of the file (``Language: de``) were reported by ``ignored-data`` rule if they were
not lowercase.
Now the rule properly recognizes all language headers.

Acknowledgements
================

Thanks to @hrsc-viessmann and @MoreFamed for bug reports that helped improve our tool!
