:orphan:

=============
Robocop 3.2.0
=============

This release brings several new variable related rules! We have also fixed several issues that appeared after
Robot Framework 6.1 release.

You can install the latest available version by running

::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-robocop

or to install exactly this version

::

    pip install robotframework-robocop==3.2.0

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Rule changes
============

New rule for detecting not used arguments (#501)
------------------------------------------------

Added new rule W0919 ``unused-argument`` for detecting not used keyword arguments.
For example::

    *** Keywords ***
    Keyword
        [Arguments]    ${used}    ${not_used}
        Log    ${used}
        IF    $used
            Log    Escaped syntax is supported.
        END

    Keyword with ${embedded} and ${not_used}  # will report ${not_used}
        Log    ${embedded}

New rule for detecting not used variables (#209)
------------------------------------------------

Added new rule I0920 ``unused-variable`` for detecting not used variables.
For example::

    *** Keywords ***
    Keyword
        ${var}    ${var2}    Calculate Cutoff  # ${var2} is not used
        Log    ${var}

New rules for overwriting arguments and variables before first use (#836)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Added new rules W0921 ``argument-overwritten-before-usage`` and W0922 ``variable-overwritten-before-usage`` for
arguments or variables overwritten before first use::

    *** Keywords ***
    Overwritten Argument
        [Arguments]    ${overwritten}  # we do not call ${overwritten} value at all
        ${overwritten}    Set Variable    value  # we only overwrite it

    Overwritten Variable
        ${var1}    ${var2}    Assign Variables
        Log        ${var2}  # this variable is used
        ${var1}    Overwrite Variable  # this one is only overwritten

New rule for inconsistent variable naming (#496)
--------------------------------------------------

Added new rule W0323 ``inconsistent-variable-name`` which reports variables with inconsistent naming.
Since Robot Framework ignore underscores and spaces in variable names, and also normalizes them to
lowercase, this code should report new rule violations::

    *** Keywords ***
    Inconsistent variables
        ${variable}    Keyword
        Keyword    ${variablE}  # matches ${variable} but is not consistent
        IF    ${var_iable} < 10  # matches ${variable} but is not consistent
            Log    ${varia ble}  # matches ${variable} but is not consistent
        END

New rule for overwriting reserved variables (#553)
--------------------------------------------------

Added new rule W0324 ``overwriting-reserved-variable`` which reports overwriting reserved Robot Framework variables.
There are variables used by Robot Framework itself which should not be overwritten. See the list at
`Robot Framework User Guide <https://robotframework.org/robotframework/latest/RobotFrameworkUserGuide.html#automatic-variables>`_.

New rule for invalid sections
------------------------------

Added new rule E0325 ``invalid-section``. It reports any unrecognized sections, for example if you are using
translated headers but did not configure the language.

Fixes
=====

Possibly overwritten variables are now detected in more places (#841, #842)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The I0316 ``possible-variable-overwriting`` now detects issues in ``IF`` assignments, embedded variables
and variable with default values.

Breaking changes in Robot Framework 6.1
---------------------------------------

Several rules stopped working after Robot Framework 6.1 release. Following rules should now work:

    - E0401 ``parsing-error``
    - E0403 ``missing-keyword-name``
    - E0414 ``return-in-test-case``
    - E0415 ``invalid-section-in-resource``
    - W1003 ``empty-lines-between-sections`` rule should now work with empty sections
    - W0511 ``empty-metadata``
    - E0915 ``statement-outside-loop``

Other features
==============

Load toml configuration file from cli (#787)
---------------------------------------------

Previously, Robocop only supported TOML configuration file by loading it automatically if ``pyproject.toml`` file
existed in the root directory. Now, it is possible to load it from any path using ``--config`` option::

    robocop --config path/to/config_file.toml

List reports now list all reports (#833)
----------------------------------------

List reports command (``--list-reports``) previously only listed enabled reports. Now, the option lists all reports
together with their enabled/disabled status. Also, internal reports are now omitted::

    > robocop --list-reports
    Available reports:
    file_stats           - Prints overall statistics about number of processed files (disabled)
    rules_by_error_type  - Prints total number of issues grouped by severity (disabled)
    rules_by_id          - Groups detected issues by rule id and prints it ordered by most common (disabled)
    sarif                - Generate SARIF output file (disabled - non-default)
    scan_timer           - Returns Robocop execution time (disabled)
    timestamp            - Returns Robocop execution timestamp. (disabled)
    version              - Returns Robocop version (disabled)

    Enable report by passing its name using ``--reports`` option. Use ``all`` to enable all default reports.
    Non-default reports (like ``sarif``) can be only enabled using their name explicitly.


List reports output can be filtered using ENABLED/DISABLED (#833)
------------------------------------------------------------------

Same as ``--list`` rules option, ``--list-reports`` now supports optional ``ENABLED`` / ``DISABLED`` argument to filter
out reports by their status::

    > robocop --reports version --list-reports ENABLED
    Available reports:
    version              - Returns Robocop version (enabled)

    > robocop --reports all --list-reports DISABLED
    Available reports:
    sarif                - Generate SARIF output file (disabled - non-default)
