:orphan:

=============
Robocop 4.0.0
=============

This release brings a handful of long-awaited features requested by our users and a few improvements we were keeping in our heads for some time.

Besides the 9 new rules, Robocop is now able to compare results between runs and see the difference in the report.

Moreover, the disablers are now smarter and they become context-aware, meaning that they disable the rules in the whole related code block.

Another improvement is the severity thresholds for the rules, which are now dynamically referenced in the rule messages.

We also added a possibility to create rules that are disabled by default, and this is a first step we made towards Community Rules, which is a huge feature we are working on, and we plan to add it in the next major release.

The results from the Robocop execution can also be exported to a JSON file with our new ``json_report``.

Another updates are:

- a new way of importing custom rules thanks to refactored mechanism of importing rules and checkers
- better readability and formatting of the documentation
- internal refactor of the reports to make it easier to maintain and extend they functionality


Backward-incompatible changes relate to rule severity thresholds and rule disablers (described below in details).

Sit down, grab a popcorn 🍿, relax and enjoy our release notes!

----

You can install the latest available version by running

::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-robocop

or to install exactly this version

::

    pip install robotframework-robocop==4.0.0

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :local:


Rule changes
============

New rule for detecting not supported settings in resource files (#827)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

According to the official RF User Guide::

    "Setting section in resource files can contain only import settings (Library, Resource, Variables)
    and Documentation. The Variable section and Keyword section are used exactly the same way
    as in test case files."

New E0416 ``invalid-setting-in-resource`` rule detects unsupported
settings in the resource files.

New rule that suggests using task- or test-related settings for corresponding sections (#522)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the file contains ``*** Task ***`` section, it is recommended to use settings like ``Task Setup``,
``Task Teardown``, ``Task Template``, ``Task Tags`` and ``Task Timeout`` instead of their `Test` variants.
Similarly, use test-related settings when using ``*** Test Cases ***`` section.

A new rule W0326 ``mixed-task-test-settings`` is introduced to cover these cases.

New rules for Keyword Tags (#641)
---------------------------------

There are 3 new rules added to support new (in RF 6.0) Keyword Tags.

``empty-keyword-tags`` rule (W0531) checks for the situation where ``Keyword Tags`` in ``*** Settings ***`` section
does not have any value provided::

    *** Settings ***
    Keyword Tags

``could-be-keyword-tags`` rule (I0610) checks if all keywords in a file share the same tag. In that case, it can be
simply added to ``Keyword Tags`` setting, which the rule suggests.

``tag-already-set-in-keyword-tags`` rule (I0611) detects a situation where all keywords share the same tag
which is already added to the ``Keyword Tags`` setting. In such case, the tags in keywords may be removed.

New rule for discovering unsupported setting in initialization file (#498)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

According to RF User Guide, ``Default Tags`` and ``Test Template`` settings are not allowed
in suite initialization files, and this is covered by a new ``unsupported-setting-in-init-file``
rule (E0417).

New rule for unnecessary string conversion in evaluated conditions (#442)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unnecessary string conversion is now detected and I0923 ``unnecessary-string-conversion`` is raised.
Following code::

    WHILE    "${status}" == "200"
        ${status}    Get Health Status    ${service_name}
    END

Can be rewritten to::

    WHILE    $status == 200
        ${status}    Get Health Status    ${service_name}
    END

New rule for conditions that can be simplified (#891)
-----------------------------------------------------

Added new rule I0924 ``expression-can-be-simplified`` that checks if the evaluated condition
can be simplified.
For example::

    IF    ${session_created} == ${FALSE}    Create Session
    Skip If    ${rows} == []

Can be rewritten to::

    IF    not ${session_created}    Create Session
    Skip If    not ${rows}

New rule for misplaced not in conditions (#893)
-----------------------------------------------

Added new rule I0925 ``misplaced-negative-condition`` that checks if the evaluated condition contains ``not`` operator
that can be moved for better readability.

For example::

    *** Keywords ***
    Check Unmapped Codes
        ${codes}    Get Codes From API
        IF    not ${codes} is None
            FOR    ${code}    IN    @{codes}
                Validate Single Code    ${code}
            END
        END

Can be rewritten to::

    *** Keywords ***
    Check Unmapped Codes
        ${codes}    Get Codes From API
        IF    ${codes} is not None
            FOR    ${code}    IN    @{codes}
                Validate Single Code    ${code}
            END
        END

Fixes
=====

Dictionary and list item assignment support (#903)
--------------------------------------------------

Robot Framework 6.1 makes it possible to assign return values from keywords to list and dictionary items (
`User Guide <https://robotframework.org/robotframework/latest/RobotFrameworkUserGuide.html#toc-entry-326>`_
, in `Assigning variables with item values` section)::

    *** Keywords ***
    Item Assignments
        ${list}[0] =    Keyword
        ${dict}[key] =    Keyword
        ${result}[users][0] =    Keyword

It should be now properly handled by ``unused-variable``, ``variable-overwritten-before-usage``,
``hyphen-in-variable-name`` and ``inconsistent-assignment`` rules.

Other features
==============

New report ``compare_runs`` for comparing results with the previous run (#489)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We have implemented a way to compare reports output with the previous run. It's done thanks to special, non-default
report ``compare_runs``.  You need to first run Robocop with a ``--persistent`` flag to save the results of the
current run, and then run it with the ``compare_runs`` report (and other chosen reports) to see the differences between the runs::

    robocop --persistent .
    robocop --reports rules_by_error_type,rules_by_id,compare_runs .

Example output::

    Found 18 (-3) issues: 13 (-4) INFOs, 5 (+1) WARNINGs.

    Issues by ID:
    I0923 (unnecessary-string-conversion)     : 10 (+0)
    W0922 (variable-overwritten-before-usage) : 2 (+1)
    I0920 (unused-variable)                   : 2 (-4)
    W0301 (not-allowed-char-in-name)          : 2 (+0)
    W0324 (overwriting-reserved-variable)     : 1 (+0)
    I0605 (could-be-test-tags)                : 1 (+0)

New report ``json_report`` (#663)
---------------------------------

Added new ``json_report`` report that produces file with issues in JSON format. It's a non-default report which needs
to be called explicitly by name (it will not be loaded with ``--reports all``)::

    robocop --reports json_report .

It will save the results to a JSON file in the current working directory under ``robocop_output.json`` filename.
Output directory and filename can be configured with::

    robocop --configure json_report:output_dir:output --configure json_report:report_filename:issues.json --reports json_report .

.. note::
    ``json_report`` was created from the old, internal-only report with the same name. The previous report is renamed to
    ``internal_json_report``. If you are using Robocop programmatically and you were using ``json_report``, rename it to
    ``internal_json_report``.

Overhaul of rules & checkers importing (#790)
---------------------------------------------

Complete refactor of how Robocop imports rules and checkers internally. Our import mechanism is now more uniform.
Additionally, it is now possible to load external rules from the modules imported inside Python file.

Let's assume we have the following code with loading external rules::

    import custom_rules.naming
    import custom_rules.errors
    from custom_rules.lengths import rules, CustomChecker

before the change, only ``CustomChecker`` would be loaded by Robocop, while the content of the ``custom_rules.naming`` and
``custom_rules.errors`` would be ignored. Now, such imports will be parsed and external Robocop rules defined
inside them will be loaded as well.

Context aware Robocop disablers (#777)
--------------------------------------

Disablers module was rewritten in Robocop in order to improve how rule disablers are handled.
Previously, disablers were parsed as lines only and were not aware of the Robot Framework code.

For example, with the following code::

    *** Keywords ***
    Read Data From Database
        [Arguments]    ${query}
        # robocop: disable=missing-doc-keyword
        Connect To Database    ${CONNECTION_STRING}
        Query Database    ${query}
        RETURN    ${query}

    Validate Data Is Not Empty
        [Arguments]    ${data}
        Should Be True    len(${data}) != 0

``# robocop: disable=missing-doc-keyword`` disabler is called in ``Read Data From Database``. In the old
implementation such disabler would ignore all matching rules till it was enabled again or end of the file is met.
Now, the disabler is aware of the context where it was called, and it will be enabled again at the end of the keyword.
The disablers support also other code blocks, such as test cases, "for" and "while" loops and "if" statements.

Reports refactor (#834)
-----------------------

Our internal reports structure was refactored to make it easier to maintain and develop it in the future. Now,
each report is stored in a separate file in Robocop project. From the user's perspective, reports should work
the same as before.

New ``enabled`` rule parameter used to create rules disabled by default (#809)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously, all defined rules were enabled by default and could be disabled using ``--exclude`` option (or by
using ``--include`` if not listed with the option). It is now possible to create a rule disabled by default using
new parameter, ``enabled``::

    rules = {
        "1155": Rule(
            rule_id="1155",
            name="custom-rule",
            msg="Custom rule message",
            severity=RuleSeverity.INFO,
            enabled=False,
            docs="""
            Custom rule description.
            """,
        )
    }

Such rules can be enabled when called explicitly with ``--include`` option::

    robocop --include custom-rule .

Or by configuring ``enabled`` parameter directly::

    robocop --ext-rules custom_rules.py -c custom-rule:enabled:True .


Rule severity thresholds printed value (#791)
---------------------------------------------

Rule severity threshold allows to change rule severity depending on the threshold value and configured severities.
In fact, it was confusing to see the reports for the same rule with different severities but the same limit value.
We changed this behavior to log the actual value that met the severity threshold.

As for example, you can configure ``too-many-calls-in-test-case`` to report warning on 10 keywords and error on 30
keywords. With such configuration you will get following reports::

    test.robot:33:1 [W] 0505 Test case 'Test case 1' has too many keywords inside (24/10) (too-many-calls-in-test-case)
    test.robot:62:1 [E] 0505 Test case 'Test case 2' has too many keywords inside (30/30) (too-many-calls-in-test-case)

Not configured severity threshold should be ignored (#791)
----------------------------------------------------------

Previously, if the rule severity threshold was configured but the rule value didn't met any conditions it was reported
with default severity. Now if the value don't pass any configured severity threshold, the issue is ignored.

For example, let's assume that ``line-too-long`` (with default severity ``W``) is configured to have severity ``E`` when
the number of the lines is higher than 150::

    robocop -c line-too-long:severity_threshold:error=150

With above configuration, ``line-too-long`` will only be reported if number of the lines is higher than 150.
The rule will display the WARNING message only if it is explicitly configured::

    robocop -c line-too-long:severity_threshold:warning=120:error=150

which is how it used to work before this release - the thresholds were added to the default ones, and now they are overwritten.

.. note::
    If your configuration contains any changes to the rule severity threshold, make sure to update it after bumping the
    Robocop version to 3.3.0+, otherwise it may provide results other than expected.

Improved documentation (#882)
-----------------------------

Our documentation has improved with better formatting of the rules.
They now have a better structure and feature a syntax highlighting for all examples.
There's also a copy button now next to the code snippets.

We plan to improve the examples with the ones that are inspired by the real-world examples soon.

Acknowledgements
================

Thanks to Jyrki (@jyrlindr) and Sayed (@sayedtenkanen) for bug reports and feature requests that helped improve our tool!
