:orphan:

=============
Robocop 4.1.0
=============

This release fixes issues with ``if-can-be-used``, ``variable-overwritten-before-usage`` and
``argument-overwritten-before-usage`` rules. Also, rule severity threshold now properly respects threshold filter.

You can install the latest available version by running

::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-robocop

or to install exactly this version

::

    pip install robotframework-robocop==4.1.0

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :local:


Most important changes
======================

Documentation makeover (#916, #917)
------------------------------------
Our external documentation (https://robocop.readthedocs.io/) got a makeover that hugely improves navigating and
readability of the documentation. It now has a better structure, proper formatting, more clear sentences,
some new articles describing how Robocop works, rewritten rules explanation and emojis!

Fixes
=====

Enable ``if-can-be-used`` rule for Robot Framework 5+
-----------------------------------------------------

I0908 ``if-can-be-used`` was incorrectly enabled only for Robot Framework 4.*. It should now work for all >=4 versions.

External rules with non-Python files in the directory
-----------------------------------------------------

Robocop no longer reports a problem when loading the external rules from a directory that also contains non-Python files.

TRY/EXCEPT with shared variables scope for all branches (#925)
--------------------------------------------------------------

``variable-overwritten-before-usage`` will no longer be raised if the same variable names are used in different
branches of the ``TRY/EXCEPT`` block::

    *** Test Cases ***
    Example Test
        TRY
            ${value}    Possibly Failing Keyword
        EXCEPT
            ${value}    Set Variable    Keyword failed  # each TRY/EXCEPT/ELSE/FINALLY branch is now separate scope
        END
        Log To Console    ${value}

Rule severity threshold and global threshold filter (#930)
-----------------------------------------------------------

Rule that uses configured severity threshold (which can dynamically set rule severity) will no longer be filtered out
by global threshold ``-t/--threshold`` if rule default severity is lower than configured threshold.

For example, given rule ``file-too-long`` which has default Warning severity and following configuration::

    robocop -c file-too-long:severity_threshold:warning=600:error=700 -t E .

If file has more than 700 lines it should be reported as Error and not be filtered out by ``--threshold``.

``argument-overwritten-before-usage`` reported on test variables (#927)
--------------------------------------------------------------------

``argument-overwritten-before-usage`` should now clear arguments after keyword definition and it will not be
raised on the next test case using the same variable names.

Acknowledgements
================

Thanks to the whole community for submitting bug reports and feature requests.
Without you, Robocop wouldn't be in the place where it is now. All the feedback
is essential to drive the tool towards higher quality and better user
experience.

If you want to help us more, consider contributing to the project directly.
We can offer our constant support to make the work fun and effective. We do
our best to create a supportive and welcoming environment for everyone.
Feel free to ping us on our official `#robocop-linter Slack channel`_ anytime.

.. _#robocop-linter Slack channel: https://robotframework.slack.com/archives/C01AWSNKC2H
