:orphan:

=============
Robocop 4.2.1
=============

Fixes to variable rules.

You can install the latest available version by running

::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-robocop

or to install exactly this version

::

    pip install robotframework-robocop==4.2.1

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :local:


Fixes
=====

Non variables detected as variable by variable rules (#982)
-----------------------------------------------------------

String literals will no longer be detected as variables by variables rules such as W0919 ``unused-argument``
or I0920 ``unused-variable``::

    Used In String Literal
        [Arguments]    ${used}    ${unused}
        Log  ${used} unused  # unused is just a string, not a variable

Global variables used in the loop before assigning variable (#868)
------------------------------------------------------------------

The variable rules (such as W0919 ``unused-argument`` or I0920 ``unused-variable``) were not aware of the recursive
nature of the loops. For example if variable was used before it was declared in the loop (original value could
originate from global variable), it was marked as unused. Following code should not report unused variables anymore::

    Loop With Global Count
        FOR    ${item}    IN    @{LIST}
            Set To Dictionary    ${item}    displayOrder=${count}
            ${count}    Evaluate    ${count} + 1
        END

Acknowledgements
================

Thanks to the whole community for submitting bug reports and feature requests.
Without you, Robocop wouldn't be in the place where it is now. All the feedback
is essential to drive the tool towards higher quality and better user
experience.

If you want to help us more, consider contributing to the project directly.
We can offer our constant support to make the work fun and effective. We do
our best to create a supportive and welcoming environment for everyone.
Feel free to ping us on our official `#robocop-linter Slack channel`_ anytime.

.. _#robocop-linter Slack channel: https://robotframework.slack.com/archives/C01AWSNKC2H