:orphan:

=============
Robocop 4.2.2
=============

Fixes for Robot Framework 7.0 critical issues and Python 3.12 support.

You can install the latest available version by running

::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-robocop

or to install exactly this version

::

    pip install robotframework-robocop==4.2.2

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Fixes
=====

Inline If with assign variables handling variables in invalid order (#987)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

"Inline If" did not properly recognize that variables were used inside "if statement" before assigning return value.
Following code::

    *** Keywords ***
    Keyword With Argument
        [Arguments]    ${arg}
        ${arg}    IF    ${VALUE}    Use  ${arg}

    Keyword With Local Variable
        ${var}    Set Variable    default value
        ${var}    IF    ${VALUE}    Use  ${var}

Will no longer raise W0921 ``argument-overwritten-before-usage`` and W0922 ``variable-overwritten-before-usage``.

And following code::

    *** Keywords ***
    Inline If - Overwritten Variable
        ${var}    Set Variable    default
        ${var}    IF    condition    Use    ${var}

    InlineIf - Assign With The Same Name As Arg
        ${assign}    IF    condition    Do Nothing    ELSE    Use    ${assign}

Should now raise I0920 ``unused-variable`` for ``${var}`` and ``${assign}`` variables.

Robot Framework 7.0 backward incompatible changes: VariableIterator refactor (#991)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Robocop variables handling relied upon ``VariableIterator`` class imported from Robot Framework package.
It caused ImportError which should be now fixed.

Robot Framework 7.0 backward incompatible changes: empty-library-alias and WITH NAME
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rule E0314 ``empty-library-alias`` should now work with Robot Framework 7.0 and ``WITH NAME`` keyword.

Robot Framework 7.0 backward incompatible changes: Deprecation warnings in Robocop output (#993)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Several rules started to issue additional deprecation warnings such as `'For.variables' is deprecated and will be
removed in Robot Framework 8.0. Use 'For.assign' instead`. Those warnings were for Robocop code only and should not
appear anymore.

Python 3.12 support: invalid escape sequence warnings (#1003)
-------------------------------------------------------------

`SyntaxWarning: invalid escape sequence '\S'` warnings should not appear anymore when importing Robocop with Python 3.12.

Acknowledgements
================

Thanks to the whole community for submitting bug reports and feature requests.
Without you, Robocop wouldn't be in the place where it is now. All the feedback
is essential to drive the tool towards higher quality and better user
experience.

If you want to help us more, consider contributing to the project directly.
We can offer our constant support to make the work fun and effective. We do
our best to create a supportive and welcoming environment for everyone.
Feel free to ping us on our official `#robocop-linter Slack channel`_ anytime.

.. _#robocop-linter Slack channel: https://robotframework.slack.com/archives/C01AWSNKC2H
