:orphan:

=============
Robocop 5.0.0
=============

You can install the latest available version by running

::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-robocop

or to install exactly this version

::

    pip install robotframework-robocop==5.0.0

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :local:


Most important changes
======================
New community rules
-------------------

Robocop now contains new type of rules: **community rules**. To put it simply, community rule is just rule disabled
by default. However it allows us to add rules that handle specific problems or have certain limitations. Such rules
will not be enabled by default and users will be able to choose to run them or not.

``Community rule`` name originates from our purpose behind this feature - we want users (our community) to more actively
contribute to Robocop rules. If you developed rule for your company that may benefit more people but is not fit for
everyone feel free to add it in our repository.

Existing community rules can be listed with ``COMMUNITY`` or ``ALL`` filters::

    > robocop --list COMMUNITY
    Rule - 10001 [W]: sleep-keyword-used: Sleep keyword with '{{ duration_time }}' sleep time found (disabled)

Those rules can be enabled by configuring ``enabled`` parameter::

    robocop --configure sleep-keyword-used:enabled:True

or by including rule in ``--include``::

    robocop --include sleep-keyword-used

Community rules - or in other words rules disabled by default - are now part of our core code. It is now also
possible to create custom disabled by default rule. If you want to contribute new community rule or create your own
custom rule then <check out this doc page>. # TODO

https://robocop.readthedocs.io/en/stable/external_rules.html#rules-disabled-by-default

Rule changes
============

Updated existing rules with VAR support (#973)
-----------------------------------------------

Following rules now support ``VAR`` syntax:

- W0310 ``non-local-variables-should-be-uppercase``
- I0316 ``possible-variable-overwriting``
- I0317 ``hyphen-in-variable-name``
- W0323 ``inconsistent-variable-name``
- W0324 ``overwriting-reserved-variable``
- W0501 ``too-long-keyword``
- W0502 ``too-few-calls-in-keyword``
- W0503 ``too-many-calls-in-keyword``
- W0504 ``too-long-test-case``
- W0505 ``too-many-calls-in-test-case``
- I0912 ``empty-variable``
- W0919 ``unused-argument``
- I0920 ``unused-variable``
- W0921 ``argument-overwritten-before-usage``
- W0922 ``variable-overwritten-before-usage``

Recognize keywords in Pabot run keywords (#1014)
------------------------------------------------

Keywords used in Pabot run keywords such as ``Run Setup Only Once`` are now recognized as keywords by Robocop rules::

    *** Keywords ***
    Keyword Run In Parallel
        Run Only Once    keyword  # should raise wrong-case-in-keyword-name

Deprecate unnecessary-string-conversion rule (#986)
----------------------------------------------------

Rule I0923 ``unnecessary-string-conversion`` is now deprecated. It reported multiple false positive issues that lead
to users breaking the code. If the rule was useful in your project and you know its limitations (coming from not knowing
the exact type of the variable in the IF condition) you can reimplement this rule as custom rule in your project.

Variable not used from Variables section (#1002)
------------------------------------------------

Variables defined in ``*** Variables ***`` section in test/task file and not used within the file are now reported
with I0920 ``unused-variable`` rule:"

    *** Variables ***
    ${GLOBAL_USED}    value
    ${GLOBAL_NOT_USED}    value  # will be reported in Robocop
    ${GLOBAL_USED_IN_SECTION}    value
    ${GLOBAL_USED2}    value with ${GLOBAL_USED_IN_SECTION}
    
    
    *** Test Cases ****
    Test
        [Documentation]    Use one global variable and call keyword that uses second.
        Log    ${GLOBAL_USED}
        Keyword
    
    
    *** Keywords ***
    Keyword
        [Documentation]    Use second global variable.
        Log    ${GLOBAL_USED2}

New rule replace-set-variable-with-var (#973)
---------------------------------------------

Added new I0327 ``replace-set-variable-with-var`` rule.

Starting from Robot Framework 7.0, it is possible to create variables inside tests and user keywords using the VAR
syntax. The VAR syntax is recommended over previously existing keywords. Starting from RF 7.0 Robocop will report
new issue when ``Set Variable`` type of keyword is used.

Example with Set Variable keywords::

    *** Keywords ***
    Set Variables To Different Scopes
        Set Local Variable    ${local}    value
        Set Test Variable    ${TEST_VAR}    value
        Set Task Variable    ${TASK_VAR}    value
        Set Suite Variable    ${SUITE_VAR}    value
        Set Global Variable    ${GLOBAL_VAR}    value

Can be now rewritten to::

    *** Keywords ***
    Set Variables To Different Scopes
        VAR    ${local}    value
        VAR    ${TEST_VAR}    value    scope=TEST
        VAR    ${TASK_VAR}    value    scope=TASK
        VAR    ${SUITE_VAR}    value    scope=SUITE
        VAR    ${GLOBAL_VAR}    value    scope=GLOBAL

New rule replace-create-with-var (#973)
---------------------------------------

Added new I0328 ``replace-create-with-var`` rule.

Starting from Robot Framework 7.0, it is possible to create variables inside tests and user keywords using the VAR
syntax. The VAR syntax is recommended over previously existing keywords. Starting from RF 7.0 Robocop will report
new issue when ``Create Dictionary`` or ``Create List`` keyword is used.

Example with Create keywords::

    *** Keywords ***
    Create Variables
        @{list}    Create List    a  b
        &{dict}    Create Dictionary    key=value

Can be now rewritten to::

    *** Keywords ***
    Create Variables
        VAR    @{list}    a  b
        VAR    &{dict}    key=value

New rule arguments-per-line (#1000)
------------------------------------------------

Added new I0532 ``arguments-per-line`` rule.

If the keyword's ``[Arguments]`` are split into multiple lines, it is recommended to put only one argument per
every line.

Example of rule violation::

    *** Keywords ***
    Keyword With Multiple Arguments
    [Arguments]    ${first_arg}
    ...    ${second_arg}    ${third_arg}=default

Fixes
=====
[Return] setting deprecation
----------------------------

``[Return]`` setting is now visibly deprecated. The internal Robot Framework model also changed and several Robocop
rules had to be updated:

- W0306 ``setting-name-not-in-title-case``
- W0319 ``deprecated-statement``
- W0510 ``number-of-returned-values``
- W0903 ``empty-return``
- W0919 ``unused-argument``
- I0920 ``unused-variable``

Keyword naming rules in [Template] / Test Template (#1013)
----------------------------------------------------------

Following rules check the keyword naming in ``[Template]`` and ``Test Template``:

- W0302 ``wrong-case-in-keyword-name``
- E0303 ``keyword-name-is-reserved-word``
- W0305 ``underscore-in-keyword-name``
- W0319 ``deprecated-statement``

Other features
==============
Drop Python 3.7 support (#942)
-------------------------------

Robocop dropped support for Python 3.7 as it is no longer officially supported. See more details at
https://endoflife.date/python .

Consider Robot Framework development version as final version in rule version matching
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Robot Framework development version (for example 7.0rc1) is considered as final version (for example 7.0) in our
version matcher. Thanks to this change it is easier to test rules with not released version - it's not required
to define exact version specifier anymore (for example '==7.0rc1').

It's internal change but can have effect on your custom rules if you have rule version specifier using development
version::

    "XYZ": Rule(
        rule_id="XYZ",
        name="custom-rule",
        msg="custom-message",
        severity=RuleSeverity.WARNING,
        version=">=4.0alpha",  # it is not allowed anymore, use >=4.0 instead
        )

Rules can be now deprecated (#1025)
------------------------------------

Some of our rules were deprecated and then removed in the past. It could lead to issues when jumping from older
Robocop versions. Because of that we have introduced mechanism to deprecate the rules. It can be also used
in custom rules::

    rules = {
        "1102": Rule(rule_id="1102", name="custom-rule", msg="Example rule", deprecated=True, severity=RuleSeverity.ERROR),
    }

Deprecated rule implementation can be removed and only rule definition can stay. If the rule is used in ``--include``,
``--exclude`` or ``--configure`` warning will be printed::

    Rule W1102 deprecated is deprecated. Remove it from your configuration.

Deprecated rules can be now listed with ``DEPRECATED`` filter::

    robocop --list DEPRECATED

Rule version matching allows for multiple Robot Framework versions (#1026)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

When defining a rule it was possible to define Robot Framework version for which rule was enabled. Is is now also
possible to define range of versions using ``;`` as separator::

    rules = {
        "1105": Rule(
            rule_id="1105",
            name="range-5-and-6",
            msg="Rule that is only enabled for RF version higher than 5 and lower or equal to 6",
            severity=RuleSeverity.INFO,
            version=">5;<=6",
        ),
    }

New checker type - ProjectChecker (#1015)
-----------------------------------------

Robocop supported two type of checkers: ``VisitorChecker`` and ``RawFileChecker``. We have added new type of checker -
``ProjectChecker``. It extends the ``VisitorChecker`` but contains special ``scan_project`` method, that can be
overriden, which is called at the end of Robocop run. Typical usage of this checker would be collecting information
about our project using visitors and then performing checks and report issues in ``scan_project`` method.
Example custom rule with ``ProjectChecker``::

    from typing import List

    from robocop.checkers import ProjectChecker
    from robocop.rules import Message, Rule, RuleSeverity

    rules = {
        "9901": Rule(
            rule_id="9901",
            name="test-total-count",
            msg="There is total of {{ tests_count }} tests in the project.",
            severity=RuleSeverity.INFO,
        ),
    }


    class MyProjectChecker(ProjectChecker):
        """Checker for total tests count."""

        reports = ("test-total-count",)

        def __init__(self):
            self.test_count = 0
            super().__init__()

        def visit_TestCase(self, node):  # noqa: N802
            self.test_count += 1

        def scan_project(self) -> List[Message]:
            # self.report is append issues to self.issues -> clearing it at the start of scan_project
            self.issues = []
            # Default issue format print file path with the issue - in this case we replace it with our custom string
            self.report("test-total-count", source="Project-name", tests_count=self.test_count)
            return self.issues

Acknowledgements
================

Thanks to the whole community for submitting bug reports and feature requests.
Without you, Robocop wouldn't be in the place where it is now. All the feedback
is essential to drive the tool towards higher quality and better user
experience.

If you want to help us more, consider contributing to the project directly.
We can offer our constant support to make the work fun and effective. We do
our best to create a supportive and welcoming environment for everyone.
Feel free to ping us on our official `#robocop-linter Slack channel`_ anytime.

.. _#robocop-linter Slack channel: https://robotframework.slack.com/archives/C01AWSNKC2H
