:orphan:

=============
Robocop 5.0.4
=============

You can install the latest available version by running

::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-robocop

or to install exactly this version

::

    pip install robotframework-robocop==5.0.4

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :local:



Fixes
=====
unused-variable when the variable is used in a Test Setup (#1062)
------------------------------------------------------------------

I0920 ``unused-variable`` was incorrectly reported if the variable was declared in the ``*** Variables ***`` section
and used in ``[Setup]``, ``[Teardown]`` or ``[Timeout]``.

Unexpected possible-variable-overwriting when elevating the scope an variable (#1053)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Using ``VAR`` to elevate scope of the variable should not longer report I0316 ``possible-variable-overwriting``::

    *** Test Cases ***
    ${date}    Get Invoice Date
    VAR    ${DATE}    ${date}    scope=SUITE

Ignore variables in tags (#1059)
--------------------------------

Variables in tags are now not checked by tag rules but variable rules only.

For example::

    *** Test Cases ***
    Test with dynamic tag
        [Tags]    tag${GLOBAL VARIABLE}
        Step

Will now not raise W0601 ``tag-with-space`` since the space is inside variable name.

Tags in documentation
----------------------

Keyword tags can be specified on the last line of the documentation with ``Tags:`` prefix. It was handled by Robocop
already but not all tags were parsed correctly. For example::

    *** Keywords ***
    Already working
    [Documentation]    Tags: tag
        Step

    Multiple tags not supported before
    [Documentation]    Tags: tag1, tag2
        Step

    Multiple spaces not supported before
    [Documentation]    Tags:  tag1,    tag2
        Step

Acknowledgements
================

Thanks to the whole community for submitting bug reports and feature requests.
Without you, Robocop wouldn't be in the place where it is now. All the feedback
is essential to drive the tool towards higher quality and better user
experience.

If you want to help us more, consider contributing to the project directly.
We can offer our constant support to make the work fun and effective. We do
our best to create a supportive and welcoming environment for everyone.
Feel free to ping us on our official `#robocop-linter Slack channel`_ anytime.

.. _#robocop-linter Slack channel: https://robotframework.slack.com/archives/C01AWSNKC2H