:orphan:

=============
Robocop 5.1.0
=============

You can install the latest available version by running

::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-robocop

or to install exactly this version

::

    pip install robotframework-robocop==5.1.0

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Rule changes
============

Community rule: not-allowed-keyword (#1067)
-------------------------------------------

New community (optional) rule W10002 ``not-allowed-keyword``. You can use this rule to find keywords that should not
be used in your project.

For example with following configuration::

    > > robocop -i not-allowed-keyword -c not-allowed-keyword:keywords:click_using_javascript,click_with_sleep

It will find and raise issues in the following code::

    *** Test Cases ***
    Test with obsolete keyword
        [Setup]    Click With Sleep    1 min  # Robocop will report not allowed keyword
        Test Step


    *** Keywords ***
    Keyword With Obsolete Implementation
        [Arguments]    ${locator}
        Click Using Javascript    ${locator}  # Robocop will report not allowed keyword

Fixes
=====
Task section not recognized for mixed-task-test-settings rule (#1074)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

If last section of the file wasn't Tasks section, Robocop assumed that file contains only Test Cases section. This
caused W0326 ``mixed-task-test-settings`` to be issued with incorrect message.

Thanks @MrBIN89 for finding the issue.

Variables in FOR loop option not recognized by unused-argument (#1073)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Variables in FOR option should be now recognized by W0919 ``unused-argument``::

    *** Keywords ***
    Keyword With For
        [Arguments]    ${argument}
        # ${argument} will no longer issue unused-argument
        FOR    ${index}    ${value}    IN ENUMERATE    @{LIST}    start=${argument}
            Log    ${value}
        END

Variable not detected as used in [Tags] and [Documentation] (#1070)
-------------------------------------------------------------------

I0920 ``unused-variable`` was incorrectly raised even if variable was used in Test Case / Keyword ``[Tags]`` or
``[Documentation]``. Following code should not raise any issue anymore::

    *** Variables ***
    ${VAR_DOCUMENTATION}    Documentation value
    ${VAR_TAG}              Tag value


    *** Test Cases ***
    Test variable in documentation
        [Documentation]    ${VAR_DOCUMENTATION}
        No Operation

    Test variable in tags
        [Documentation]    Documentation in test about variable in tags
        [Tags]    ${VAR_TAG}
        No Operation

Comments section with only robocop disabler raising ignored-data (#1044)
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Following code will not raise W0704 ``ignored-data`` anymore since comments section contains only robocop disabler and
empty lines::

    # robocop: off=0701

    *** Test Cases ***
    First Test Case
        [Documentation]    Doc
        No Operation

Additionally robotidy disablers (``# robotidy: off``) are now recognized as well.

Relative paths in argument files (#1071)
-----------------------------------------

Relative paths in argument files will be now resolved correctly. For example, using following command::

    robocop -A tests/args.txt

And tests/args.txt file::

    --ext-rules rules/robocop_rules.py

``--ext-rules rules/robocop_rules.py`` will be resolved to ``--ext-rules tests/rules/robocop_rules.py``. This
behaviour already worked for toml configuration files and wasn't working correctly for argument files.

Other features
==============

Robocop file disablers can be defined anywhere in the first comment section (#1044)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was possible to disable Robocop for selected or all rules in the given file. However such disablers had to be defined
in the the first line of the file::

    # robocop: off

    *** Test Cases ***
    Test
        Step

It is now also possible to define file-level disablers anywhere in the first comment section::

    # robocop: off=onerule
    # explanation why the rule is disabled
    # robocop: off=onerule2

    *** Test Cases ***
    Test
        Step

Disable reports from the configuration (#1072)
----------------------------------------------

It is now possible to disable all reports with special keyword ``None``::

    robocop --reports all,None

It is useful when Robocop joins configuration from multiple sources (configuration files or cli) but user want to
override any configured report and do not run any report.

Acknowledgements
================

Thanks to the whole community for submitting bug reports and feature requests.
Without you, Robocop wouldn't be in the place where it is now. All the feedback
is essential to drive the tool towards higher quality and better user
experience.

If you want to help us more, consider contributing to the project directly.
We can offer our constant support to make the work fun and effective. We do
our best to create a supportive and welcoming environment for everyone.
Feel free to ping us on our official `#robocop-linter Slack channel`_ anytime.

.. _#robocop-linter Slack channel: https://robotframework.slack.com/archives/C01AWSNKC2H