:orphan:

=============
Robocop 5.2.0
=============

This release brings three new rules for order of the imports.
Big thanks for @szymonslodkowski contribution with the new rules.

You can install the latest available version by running

::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-robocop

or to install exactly this version

::

    pip install robotframework-robocop==5.2.0

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Rule changes
============

Community rule: non-builtin-imports-not-sorted (#1088)
-------------------------------------------------------

New community (optional) rule W10101 ``non-builtin-imports-not-sorted``.

Example of rule violation::

    *** Settings ***
    Library    Collections
    Library    CustomLibrary
    Library    AnotherCustomLibrary  # AnotherCustomLibrary library defined after custom CustomLibrary

Community rule: resources-imports-not-sorted (#1088)
-----------------------------------------------------

New community (optional) rule W10102 ``resources-imports-not-sorted``.

Example of rule violation::

    *** Settings ***
    Resource   CustomResource.resource
    Resource   AnotherFile.resource

Rule: builtin-imports-not-sorted (#1088)
----------------------------------------

New rule W0926 ``builtin-imports-not-sorted``.

Example of rule violation::

    *** Settings ***
    Library    OperatingSystem
    Library    Collections  # BuiltIn libraries imported not in alphabetical order

Acknowledgements
================

Thanks to the whole community for submitting bug reports and feature requests.
Without you, Robocop wouldn't be in the place where it is now. All the feedback
is essential to drive the tool towards higher quality and better user
experience.

If you want to help us more, consider contributing to the project directly.
We can offer our constant support to make the work fun and effective. We do
our best to create a supportive and welcoming environment for everyone.
Feel free to ping us on our official `#robocop-linter Slack channel`_ anytime.

.. _#robocop-linter Slack channel: https://robotframework.slack.com/archives/C01AWSNKC2H