:orphan:

=============
Robocop 5.3.0
=============

You can install the latest available version by running

::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-robocop

or to install exactly this version

::

    pip install robotframework-robocop==5.3.0

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Rule changes
============

New unused-keyword rule (#1017)
-------------------------------

New I10101 ``unused-keyword`` community rule. This optional rule finds not used keywords defined in suites (robot files
with tests/tasks) or private keywords (keywords with ``robot:private`` tag).

For example::

    *** Test Cases ***
    Test that only non used keywords are reported
        Used Keyword

    *** Keywords ***
    Not Used Keyword  # this keyword will be reported as not used
        [Arguments]    ${arg}
        Should Be True    ${arg}>50

This rule will be developed in the future releases to cover other sources like resource files.

empty-variable can be now disabled for VAR (#1056)
--------------------------------------------------

I0912 ``empty-variable`` received new parameter ``variable_source`` which allows to enable the rule either only for
variables from ```*** Variables ***``` section or only ``VAR`` statements. By default it works on both.

New first-argument-in-new-line rule (#1001)
-------------------------------------------

New W1018 ``first-argument-in-new-line`` rule that checks if first argument is placed in the same line as
``[Argument]`` setting.

This rule covers Robot Framework Style Guide recommendation:

https://docs.robotframework.org/docs/style_guide#line-continuation-for-arguments-in-keyword-definition

Acknowledgements
================

Thanks to the whole community for submitting bug reports and feature requests.
Without you, Robocop wouldn't be in the place where it is now. All the feedback
is essential to drive the tool towards higher quality and better user
experience.

If you want to help us more, consider contributing to the project directly.
We can offer our constant support to make the work fun and effective. We do
our best to create a supportive and welcoming environment for everyone.
Feel free to ping us on our official `#robocop-linter Slack channel`_ anytime.

.. _#robocop-linter Slack channel: https://robotframework.slack.com/archives/C01AWSNKC2H
