:orphan:

=============
Robocop 5.4.0
=============

You can install the latest available version by running

::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-robocop

or to install exactly this version

::

    pip install robotframework-robocop==5.4.0

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Rule changes
============

Allow to ignore run keywords in misaligned-continuation-row rule (#1065)
------------------------------------------------------------------------

W1015 ``misaligned-continuation-row`` detects if statements have misaligned rows::

    *** Keywords ***
    Misaligned example
        Keyword Call
        ...    first argument
        ...  second argument  # should be executed

This rules contradicts with how Robotidy aligns nested keywords with ``IndentNestedKeywords`` transformer to provide
extra alignment for readability purposes::

    SSH Wait For Device To Close SSH
        [Documentation]    Wait until SSH connection is closed by device.
        Wait Until Keyword Succeeds    2min    2s
        ...    Run Keyword And Expect Error    SSHException: SSH session not active
        ...        SSH Log FW Version    level=DEBUG

It is now possible to ignore run keywords by setting ignore_run_keywords to True::

    robocop -c misaligned-continuation-row:ignore_run_keywords:True src

By default it is disabled and run keywords are not ignored.

Fixes
=====

mixed-task-test-settings reporting task settings in __init__.robot file (#1101)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes the issue where all task settings (such as ``Task Tags``) were reported as W0326 ``mixed-task-test-settings``
violation in files without Test or Task section.

unused-variable not detected within IF block (#1093)
----------------------------------------------------

If the variable was defined in the IF block, I0920 ``unused-variable`` was not reported even if variable was not used
anywhere::

    *** Test Cases ***
    Useless variable definition
        IF    True
             ${not_used}    Keyword Call
        END

Acknowledgements
================

Thanks to the whole community for submitting bug reports and feature requests.
Without you, Robocop wouldn't be in the place where it is now. All the feedback
is essential to drive the tool towards higher quality and better user
experience.

If you want to help us more, consider contributing to the project directly.
We can offer our constant support to make the work fun and effective. We do
our best to create a supportive and welcoming environment for everyone.
Feel free to ping us on our official `#robocop-linter Slack channel`_ anytime.

.. _#robocop-linter Slack channel: https://robotframework.slack.com/archives/C01AWSNKC2H