:orphan:

=============
Robocop 5.6.0
=============

You can install the latest available version by running

::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-robocop

or to install exactly this version

::

    pip install robotframework-robocop==5.6.0

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Rules
=====

No global variable setters keywords (#1117)
--------------------------------------------

New rules that prohibits usage of variable setters with global scopes:

- W0929 ``no-global-variable``
- W0930 ``no-suite-variable``
- W0931 ``no-test-variable``

Using global variables might be necessary in some cases; however, they often result in code that is difficult
to understand. It's generally better to avoid them and instead use local variables.

Other
=====

Allow to overwrite documentation url (#1123)
--------------------------------------------

Robocop rules pointed to default rules documentation webpage (https://robocop.readthedocs.io/en/stable/rules_list.html).
Because of that, any custom rule incorrectly pointed out to the robocop rules page.

With this change, it's now possible to overwrite default rules documentation page using ``help_url`` argument::

    (...)
    "0601": Rule(
    rule_id="0601",
    name="custom-rule",
    msg="Custom message",
    severity=RuleSeverity.WARNING,
    help_url="https://www.your_company.com/robocop/rules/custom_rule"
    ),

Acknowledgements
================

Thanks to the whole community for submitting bug reports and feature requests.
Without you, Robocop wouldn't be in the place where it is now. All the feedback
is essential to drive the tool towards higher quality and better user
experience.

If you want to help us more, consider contributing to the project directly.
We can offer our constant support to make the work fun and effective. We do
our best to create a supportive and welcoming environment for everyone.
Feel free to ping us on our official `#robocop-linter Slack channel`_ anytime.

.. _#robocop-linter Slack channel: https://robotframework.slack.com/archives/C01AWSNKC2H