:orphan:

=============
Robocop 5.7.0
=============

You can install the latest available version by running

::

    pip install --upgrade robotframework-robocop

or to install exactly this version

::

    pip install robotframework-robocop==5.7.0

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Rules
=====

Undefined argument default (#1144)
----------------------------------

New rule E0932 ``undefined-argument-default``.

It is technically possible to define keyword argument default with empty string::

    *** Keywords ***
    My Keyword
    [Arguments]    ${argument_name}=

This syntax is unclear and it is better to explicitly state that the value is empty using built-in variable::

    *** Keywords ***
    My Keyword
    [Arguments]    ${argument_name}=${EMPTY}

New rule catches all occurrences where argument have empty default value and reports it.

Undefined argument value (#1149)
---------------------------------

New rule E0933 ``undefined-argument-value``.

Similarly to ``undefined-argument-default``, it is possible to pass value to argument with empty string::

    Keyword Call    argument_name=

It is recommended to use explicit value instead::

    Keyword Call    argument_name=${EMPTY}

Fixes
=====

Relative imports in custom rule folder (#1122)
-----------------------------------------------

Custom rules directory is now automatically added to python path. It allows to use relative imports inside custom
rules module.

Acknowledgements
================

Thanks to the whole community for submitting bug reports and feature requests.
Without you, Robocop wouldn't be in the place where it is now. All the feedback
is essential to drive the tool towards higher quality and better user
experience.

If you want to help us more, consider contributing to the project directly.
We can offer our constant support to make the work fun and effective. We do
our best to create a supportive and welcoming environment for everyone.
Feel free to ping us on our official `#robocop-linter Slack channel`_ anytime.

.. _#robocop-linter Slack channel: https://robotframework.slack.com/archives/C01AWSNKC2H