:orphan:

=============
Robocop 6.0.1
=============

return_status report fails with no attribute exception (#1357)
--------------------------------------------------------------

``return_status`` report should no longer fail with `has no exit_code` attribute error.

reports setting is ignored in the configuration file (#1358)
------------------------------------------------------------

Reports settings was not read correctly from the configuration file. It should now work as expected and reports
can be enabled from the configuration file.

configure from cli overwriting configuration file setting (#1360)
-----------------------------------------------------------------

``--configure`` can be now used in combination with the configuration file. Following configuration::

    > robocop check --configure line-too-long.line_length=140

    [tool.robocop.lint]
    configure = ["too-long-test-case.max_len=60"]

will result in Robocop using both configurations for ``line-too-long`` and ``too-long-test-case`` rules instead of only
using value from cli.

severity of the rule is not configurable (#1362)
------------------------------------------------

Rule severity can be now configured::

    robocop check --configure line-too-long.severity=e

Because of the attribute name clash for ``severity``, configuration for it was ignored before.

Robocop dependencies are stricter than 5.8.1 release (#1294)
------------------------------------------------------------

Some of the Robocop dependencies used older upper version than 5.8.1 release. I have decided to not limit upper level
of dependency with exception of Robot Framework version. Read following article to understand pros and cons of it:
https://iscinumpy.dev/post/bound-version-constraints/ . For our users it means more flexibility and better backward
compatibility. If the latest version of any of our dependency is breaking, we can always release fix version for it.

Acknowledgements
================

Thanks to the whole community for submitting bug reports and feature requests.
Without you, Robocop wouldn't be in the place where it is now. All the feedback
is essential to drive the tool towards higher quality and better user
experience.

If you want to help us more, consider contributing to the project directly.
We can offer our constant support to make the work fun and effective. We do
our best to create a supportive and welcoming environment for everyone.
Feel free to ping us on our official `#robocop-linter Slack channel`_ anytime.

.. _#robocop-linter Slack channel: https://robotframework.slack.com/archives/C01AWSNKC2H