=============
Robocop 6.0
=============

Robocop 6.0 is major release of both Robocop and Robotidy (!) tools.

Although this is the 6th major version of Robocop, the scope of changes is larger than ever before.
Nearly all core functionality has been rewritten, refactored, or replaced. Please make sure to review all the breaking
changes, as most of the previous commands or configuration files will be compatible with this release.

Merging the tools
==================

We have decided to merge both Robocop and Robotidy tools. This challenging decision was made for the following reasons:

* It's more efficient to maintain a single tool rather than two, as there was some code overlap between them
* Robotidy was developed after Robocop and used entirely different libraries and architecture for CLI and
  configuration management. Implementing the same feature in both tools resulted in duplicate effort
* This migration requires us to rewrite much of the code, providing a opportunity to redefine some of our core
  architecture
* We believe the merged tool will offer a significantly better user experience

Merging the tools means that:

* Robotidy is no longer developed and will now exist as 'Formatter' part of the Robocop
* Robocop is now split into two modes, 'Formatter' and 'Linter'

The basic usage is::

    robocop check
    robocop format

There are several breaking changes to the configurations. You can migrate old toml configuration files with the
following command::

    robocop migrate <config_path>

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Breaking changes
=================

Command line options changes
----------------------------

Most of the options were renamed to normalize naming between two tools or to make it more user friendly.
Some of the old options (like ``--exclude``) are now used for something else.

Rule selection options are now renamed:

- ``-i/--include`` became ``-s/--select``
- ``-e/--exclude`` became ``-i/--ignore``

---

File inclusion changes:

Previously, Robocop used ``paths`` argument and Robotidy ``src`` for selecting paths. It was then additionally
configured using options for filtering based on directory names or file types.

Now the role of ``paths`` was taken by ``include`` and ``--default--include`` (``*.robot`` and ``.resource``) options.
It is recommended to use cli for selecting directory and leave it to robocop to find and filter out files.
If nothing is configured (we only run ``robocop check`` / ``robocop format``) then it will start from the current
directory. List of new or deprecated options:

- ``paths`` became ``--include``
- ``-ft/--filetypes`` is now deprecated in favour of using ``--include`` or ``--default-include`` option
- ``-g/--ignore`` became ``-e/--exclude`` (additionally excluded paths)
- ``-gd/--ignore-default`` became ``--default-exclude`` (paths excluded by default)

More on how to configure file paths in the X section in the documentation. # TODO

---

``--list`` options were overhauled and became commands:

- Robocop ``--list`` used to list available rules became ``list rules`` command::

    robocop list rules

- Robocop ``-lr/--list-reports`` used to list available reports became ``list reports command::

    robocop list reports

- Robocop ``-lc / --list-configurables`` was overhauled and was incorporated to ``docs`` command::

    robocop docs line-too-long

  This command will print rule documentation and possible parameters.

- Robotidy ``--list`` used to list available formatters became ``list formatters`` command::

    robocop list formatters

Describe options (``--desc``) are now replaced by ``docs`` command which can print rule, report or formatter
documentation.

---

Issue format ``--format`` is now renamed to ``--issue-format``.

Formatting options from Robotidy:

- ``--lineseparator`` became ``--line-ending``
- ``--spacecount`` became ``--space-count``
- ``-sl/--startline`` became ``--start-line``
- ``-el/--endline`` became ``--end-line``


``-rules / --ext-rules`` can be now only used under ``--custom-rules`` name.

``--load-transformers / --custom-transformers`` is now renamed to ``--custom-formatters``.

---

``-nr / --no-recursive`` is now deprecated. Similar behaviour can be attained by passing file paths to robocop or
configuring ``--exclude`` option.

(Robotidy) Formatter deprecated --transform option
--------------------------------------------------

``--transform`` option used to select formatters is now deprecated. It has been replaced by ``--select`` which function
in a similar way but has one key difference: it does not support configuration. Configuration can be now passed only
to dedicated ``--configure`` option.

Previous command::

    robotidy --transform YourTransformer:parameter=value --configure DefaultTransformer:other_parameter=value

Can be now achieved by::

    robocop format --select YourTransformer --configure YourTransformer.parameter=value --configure DefaultTransformer.other_parameter=value

All other ``transform`` mentions were also deprecated, for example:

- ``TRANSFORMERS`` list inside custom formatters to indicate order of the formatting should be now named ``FORMATTERS``
- ``Transformer`` class was renamed to ``Formatter``

(Robocop) linter deprecated argument file
-----------------------------------------

Linter alternative configuration file format - ``--argumentfile`` / ``.robocop`` file is now deprecated.
From now on we will only support one configuration file format (``toml`` based).

More information on current configuration file syntax at X. TODO

Linter and formatter configuration syntax change
------------------------------------------------

Robocop used two ``:`` to separate param and value in ``--config`` option. Robotidy used ``:`` and ``=``.
New Robocop now uses ``.`` and ``=``. Previous configuration changed from::

    robocop --configure rule_or_report:param:value
    robotidy --configure transformer:param=value

to::

    robocop check --configure rule_or_report.param=value
    robocop format --configure formatter.param=value

---

It is also no longer possible to chain multiple configurations in one configure call. Following example::

    robotidy --configure formatter:param=value:param2=value

For readability reasons it can be now done only using separate options::

    robocop format --configure formatter:param=value --configure formatter:param2=value

---

Passing configuration through file names that contains formatter is also deprecated::

    robotidy --configure MyFormatter.py:param=2

Use implicit name of the formatter instead::

    robocop format --configure MyFormatter.param=2

Configuration file syntax changes
---------------------------------

Due to merge of the tool, syntax of the configuration file has changed. Most of the changes originate from the
changes to option names etc. Some of the changes are however dictated by the merge itself.

General settings are now available under ``tool.robocop`` section::

    [tool.robocop]
    exclude = ["excluded_dir/"]

Linter or formatter specific settings are avaiable under ``lint`` or ``format`` sections::

    [tool.robocop.lint]
    configure = [
        "line-too-long.line_length=110"
    ]
    [tool.robocop.format]
    skip = ["documentation"]
    configure = [
        "NormalizeSeparators.skip=documentation"
    ]

Documentation describes with examples where particular options should be configured.

--target-version different input syntax
---------------------------------------

Formatter ``--target-version`` can now only accept numbers. Previous configuration such as ``--target-version RF5``
should be now ``--target-version 5``.

Issue source is now relative by default
---------------------------------------

Relative path to source is now used by default when printing the linter issues.

Previous output, if run from ``robot_project`` directory::

    D:/code/robot_project/tests/test.robot:19:59 [W] 0601 Tag '${var} space' should not contain spaces (tag-with-space)

New output::

    robot_project/tests/test.robot:19:59 [W] 0601 Tag '${var} space' should not contain spaces (tag-with-space)

Previous issue format keyword ``source_rel`` is deprecated and ``source`` is used instead. It is still possible to use
absolute paths in output by configuring issue format to ``source_abs``::

    robocop check --issue-format "{source_abs}:{line}:{col} [{severity}] {rule_id} {desc} ({name})"

Replaced --output option with text_file report
----------------------------------------------

As part of the improved and safer design, linter option ``--output`` is now deprecated.

Instead, ``text_file`` report can be used::

     robocop check --reports text_file --configure text_file.output_path=output/robocop.txt

``text_file`` report supports only ``simple`` issue output format.

Deprecated singular skip options in formatter (Robotidy)
--------------------------------------------------------

Robotidy offered multiple options to skip formatting of different statement types, if the formatter allows it::

    --skip-documentation
    --skip-return-values
    --skip-keyword-call
    --skip-keyword-call-pattern
    --skip-settings
    --skip-arguments
    --skip-setup
    --skip-teardown
    --skip-timeout
    --skip-template
    --skip-return
    --skip-tags
    --skip-comments
    --skip-block-comments
    --skip-sections

Several options were combined under single option named ``skip``::

    --skip documentation
    --skip return-values
    --skip settings
    --skip arguments
    --skip setup
    --skip teardown
    --skip timeout
    --skip template
    --skip return
    --skip tags
    --skip comments
    --skip block-comments
    --skip-sections
    --skip-keyword-call
    --skip-keyword-call-pattern

``skip`` accept multiple values from the cli or the configuration files.
When configuring skip options for the particular formatter, you can also use comma separated list.

return_status report is now optional
-------------------------------------

Return status (exit code) of Robocop depended on internal, always enabled `return_status` report. It was calculated
based on parameter `quality_gate`. Default configuration::

    quality_gate = {
        'E': 0,
        'W': 0,
        'I': -1
    }

It means that any error or warning will count towards exit code. Information messages by default were not counted
towards exit code. Actual exit code is number of issues over set limit, up to 255 (for example with 'W': 100 and 105
warnings, exit code will be 5).

This behaviour wasn't clear to most, and makes Robocop unpredictable when run in CI/CD pipelines. That's why we are
now making `return_status` report optional. It means that now exit code follows different logic:

- 0, if no rule violations were found
- 1, if violations were found
- 2, if Robocop terminated abnormally

It is possible to always return 0, ignoring any violations, with new ``--exit-zero`` flag. The previous behaviour
can be reproduced by simply enabling ``return_status`` report again::

    robocop check --reports return_status

compare_runs report is replaced with --compare
-----------------------------------------------

``compare_runs`` was special report that had to be enabled in order to compare reports results from current run
with previous runs. It was bit of a workaround, that's why it was removed.

To compare results, use ``--compare`` flag::

    robocop check --compare

Remember that you still need results from previous run (saved with ``--persistent``) and comparison is done on results
from the reports. Full example::

    robocop check --persistent --compare --reports all

Community rules are now simply 'non-default' rules
--------------------------------------------------

We have introduced non-default, 'community' rules in effort to increase contributions from the community.
However we noticed that it does not make sense to split our rules into 'internal' and 'community' ones -
the rules contributed from the users are often added as the default rules. For rules that should be optional it is
enough to set them as non-default rules.

For that reason we are deprecating term 'community' rules and all options related to it, such as filtering list of
rules by community rules.

Rule severity is now separate from the rule id
----------------------------------------------

Robocop previously allowed to select / ignore / configure rules using rule id with rule severity. For example::

    robocop check --select W1010 --select 1011

Since rule severity is configurable, it could be potentially confusing. Additionally it caused unindented issues when
using rule id with non-numeric characters (for example ``ERR001`` could be interpreted as ``RR001`` instead).
For those reasons it's not possible anymore to refer to rule using rule id with its severity. Use rule id without
severity or rule name instead::

    robocop check --select DOC01 --select missing-doc-test-case

Rules changes
-------------

We have reviewed all the rules to improve rule ids, names, documentation, messages and overall design.
It would be too much to list of all the changes, but we will list all changes that have impact on the users.

**Renamed messages**

Multiple rules messages were updated to avoid words such as ``should be`` or suggestions for fixes and to simply
state what's the actual issue. For example ``bad-block-indent`` message:

``Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block``

became:

``Not enough indentation inside block``

The goal was to have clear and shorter messages. Actual issue is well described thanks to the rule documentation
and new output format (which displays source around the issue).

**Rule id changes**

Previous rule ids consisted of group id and unique rule number. For example ``0201`` - ``02`` was documentation group
id while ``01`` was unique rule number. This naming scheme wasn't clear and made it harder to categorize rule on first
glance. That's why we have switched to alphanumeric group names (for example ``DOC`` instead of ``02``).
Various groups are also additionally split into smaller sub-groups. This change leads to backward incompatible
changes to all rule ids.

Documentation rules are now grouped under 'DOC' group:

- ``0201`` became ``DOC01`` (``missing-doc-keyword``)
- ``0202`` became ``DOC02`` (``missing-doc-test-case``)
- ``0203`` became ``DOC03`` (``missing-doc-suite``)
- ``0204`` became ``DOC04`` (``missing-doc-resource-file``)

Tags rules are now grouped under 'TAG' group:

- ``0601`` became ``TAG01`` (``tag-with-space``)
- ``0602`` became ``TAG02`` (``tag-with-or-and``)
- ``0603`` became ``TAG03`` (``tag-with-reserved-word``)
- ``0605`` became ``TAG05`` (``could-be-test-tags``)
- ``0606`` became ``TAG06`` (``tag-already-set-in-test-tags``)
- ``0607`` became ``TAG07`` (``unnecessary-default-tags``)
- ``0608`` became ``TAG08`` (``empty-tags``)
- ``0609`` became ``TAG09`` (``duplicated-tags``)
- ``0610`` became ``TAG10`` (``could-be-keyword-tags``)
- ``0611`` became ``TAG11`` (``tag-already-set-in-keyword-tags``)

Comments rules are now grouped under 'COM' group:

- ``0701`` became ``COM01`` (``todo-in-comment``)
- ``0702`` became ``COM02`` (``missing-space-after-comment``)
- ``0703`` became ``COM03`` (``invalid-comment``)
- ``0704`` became ``COM04`` (``ignored-data``)
- ``0705`` became ``COM05`` (``bom-encoding-in-file``)

Import related rules are now grouped under 'IMP' group:

- ``0911`` became ``IMP01`` (``wrong-import-order``)
- ``0926`` became ``IMP02`` (``builtin-imports-not-sorted``)
- ``10101`` became ``IMP03`` (``non-builtin-imports-not-sorted``)
- ``10102`` became ``IMP04`` (``resources-imports-not-sorted``)

Spacing and whitespace related rules are now grouped under 'SPC' group:

- ``1001`` became ``SPC01`` (``trailing-whitespace``)
- ``1002`` became ``SPC02`` (``missing-trailing-blank-line``)
- ``1003`` became ``SPC03`` (``empty-lines-between-sections``)
- ``1004`` became ``SPC04`` (``empty-lines-between-test-cases``)
- ``1005`` became ``SPC05`` (``empty-lines-between-keywords``)
- ``1006`` became ``SPC06`` (``mixed-tabs-and-spaces``)
- ``1008`` became ``SPC08`` (``bad-indent``)
- ``1009`` became ``SPC09`` (``empty-line-after-section``)
- ``1010`` became ``SPC10`` (``too-many-trailing-blank-lines``)
- ``1011`` became ``SPC11`` (``misaligned-continuation``)
- ``1012`` became ``SPC12`` (``consecutive-empty-lines``)
- ``1013`` became ``SPC13`` (``empty-lines-in-statement``)
- ``1014`` became ``SPC14`` (``variable-should-be-left-aligned`` -> ``variable-not-left-aligned``)
- ``1015`` became ``SPC15`` (``misaligned-continuation-row``)
- ``1016`` became ``SPC16`` (``suite-setting-should-be-left-aligned`` -> ``suite-setting-not-left-aligned``)
- ``1017`` became ``SPC17`` (``bad-block-indent``)
- ``1018`` became ``SPC18`` (``first-argument-in-new-line``)
- ``0402`` became ``SPC19`` (``not-enough-whitespace-after-setting``)
- ``0406`` became ``SPC20`` (``not-enough-whitespace-after-newline-marker``)
- ``0410`` became ``SPC21`` (``not-enough-whitespace-after-variable``)
- ``0411`` became ``SPC22`` (``not-enough-whitespace-after-suite-setting``)

Duplications related rules are now grouped under 'DUP' group:

- ``0801`` became ``DUP01`` (``duplicated-test-case"``)
- ``0802`` became ``DUP02`` (``duplicated-keyword``)
- ``0803`` became ``DUP03`` (``duplicated-variable``)
- ``0804`` became ``DUP04`` (``duplicated-resource``)
- ``0805`` became ``DUP05`` (``duplicated-library``)
- ``0806`` became ``DUP06`` (``duplicated-metadata``)
- ``0807`` became ``DUP07`` (``duplicated-variables-import``)
- ``0808`` became ``DUP08`` (``section-already-defined``)
- ``0810`` became ``DUP09`` (``both-tests-and-tasks``)
- ``0813`` became ``DUP10`` (``duplicated-setting``)

Length related rules are now grouped under 'LEN' group:

- ``0501`` became ``LEN01`` (``too-long-keyword``)
- ``0502`` became ``LEN02`` (``too-few-calls-in-keyword``)
- ``0503`` became ``LEN03`` (``too-many-calls-in-keyword``)
- ``0504`` became ``LEN04`` (``too-long-test-case``)
- ``0528`` became ``LEN05`` (``too-few-calls-in-test-case``)
- ``0505`` became ``LEN06`` (``too-many-calls-in-test-case``)
- ``0507`` became ``LEN07`` (``too-many-arguments``)
- ``0508`` became ``LEN08`` (``line-too-long``)
- ``0509`` became ``LEN09`` (``empty-section``)
- ``0510`` became ``LEN10`` (``number-of-returned-values``)
- ``0511`` became ``LEN11`` (``empty-metadata``)
- ``0512`` became ``LEN12`` (``empty-documentation``)
- ``0513`` became ``LEN13`` (``empty-force-tags``)
- ``0514`` became ``LEN14`` (``empty-default-tags``)
- ``0515`` became ``LEN15`` (``empty-variables-import``)
- ``0516`` became ``LEN16`` (``empty-resource-import``)
- ``0517`` became ``LEN17`` (``empty-library-import``)
- ``0518`` became ``LEN18`` (``empty-setup``)
- ``0519`` became ``LEN19`` (``empty-suite-setup``)
- ``0520`` became ``LEN20`` (``empty-test-setup``)
- ``0521`` became ``LEN21`` (``empty-teardown``)
- ``0522`` became ``LEN22`` (``empty-suite-teardown``)
- ``0523`` became ``LEN23`` (``empty-test-teardown``)
- ``0524`` became ``LEN24`` (``empty-timeout``)
- ``0525`` became ``LEN25`` (``empty-test-timeout``)
- ``0526`` became ``LEN26`` (``empty-arguments``)
- ``0527`` became ``LEN27`` (``too-many-test-cases``)
- ``0506`` became ``LEN28`` (``file-too-long``)
- ``0529`` became ``LEN29`` (``empty-test-template``)
- ``0530`` became ``LEN30`` (``empty-template``)
- ``0531`` became ``LEN31`` (``empty-keyword-tags``)

Variable related rules are now grouped under 'VAR' group:

- ``0912`` became ``VAR01`` (``empty-variable``)
- ``0920`` became ``VAR02`` (``unused-variable``)
- ``0922`` became ``VAR03`` (``variable-overwritten-before-usage``)
- ``0929`` became ``VAR04`` (``no-global-variable``)
- ``0930`` became ``VAR05`` (``no-suite-variable``)
- ``0931`` became ``VAR06`` (``no-test-variable``)
- ``0310`` became ``VAR07`` (``non-local-variables-should-be-uppercase``)
- ``0316`` became ``VAR08`` (``possible-variable-overwriting``)
- ``0317`` became ``VAR09`` (``hyphen-in-variable-name``)
- ``0323`` became ``VAR10`` (``inconsistent-variable-name``)
- ``0324`` became ``VAR11`` (``overwriting-reserved-variable``)
- ``0812`` became ``VAR12`` (``duplicated-assigned-var-name``)

Argument related rules are now grouped under 'ARG' group:

- ``0919`` became ``ARG01`` (``unused-argument``)
- ``0921`` became ``ARG02`` (``argument-overwritten-before-usage``)
- ``0932`` became ``ARG03`` (``undefined-argument-default``)
- ``0933`` became ``ARG04`` (``undefined-argument-value``)
- ``0407`` became ``ARG05`` (``invalid-argument``)
- ``0811`` became ``ARG06`` (``duplicated-argument-name``)
- ``0532`` became ``ARG07`` (``arguments-per-line``)

Deprecated syntax or code replacement recommendations are now grouped under 'DEPR' group:

- ``0908`` became ``DEPR01`` (``if-can-be-used``)
- ``0319`` became ``DEPR02`` (``deprecated-statement``)
- ``0321`` became ``DEPR03`` (``deprecated-with-name``)
- ``0322`` became ``DEPR04`` (``deprecated-singular-header``)
- ``0327`` became ``DEPR05`` (``replace-set-variable-with-var``)
- ``0328`` became ``DEPR06`` (``replace-create-with-var``)

Naming rules are now grouped under 'NAME' group:

- ``0301`` became ``NAME01`` (``not-allowed-char-in-name``)
- ``0302`` became ``NAME02`` (``wrong-case-in-keyword-name``)
- ``0303`` became ``NAME03`` (``keyword-name-is-reserved-word``)
- ``0305`` became ``NAME04`` (``underscore-in-keyword-name``)
- ``0306`` became ``NAME05`` (``setting-name-not-in-title-case``)
- ``0307`` became ``NAME06`` (``section-name-invalid``)
- ``0308`` became ``NAME07`` (``not-capitalized-test-case-title``)
- ``0309`` became ``NAME08`` (``section-variable-not-uppercase``)
- ``0311`` became ``NAME09`` (``else-not-upper-case``)
- ``0312`` became ``NAME10`` (``keyword-name-is-empty``)
- ``0313`` became ``NAME11`` (``test-case-name-is-empty``)
- ``0314`` became ``NAME12`` (``empty-library-alias``)
- ``0315`` became ``NAME13`` (``duplicated-library-alias``)
- ``0318`` became ``NAME14`` (``bdd-without-keyword-call``)
- ``0320`` became ``NAME15`` (``not-allowed-char-in-filename``)
- ``0325`` became ``NAME16`` (``invalid-section``)
- ``0326`` became ``NAME17`` (``mixed-task-test-settings``)

Other rules are now grouped under 'MISC' group:

- ``0901`` became ``MISC01`` (``keyword-after-return``)
- ``0903`` became ``MISC02`` (``empty-return``)
- ``0907`` became ``MISC03`` (``nested-for-loop``)
- ``0909`` became ``MISC04`` (``inconsistent-assignment``)
- ``0910`` became ``MISC05`` (``inconsistent-assignment-in-variables``)
- ``0913`` became ``MISC06`` (``can-be-resource-file``)  # TODO: NAM?
- ``0914`` became ``MISC07`` (``if-can-be-merged``)
- ``0915`` became ``MISC08`` (``statement-outside-loop``)
- ``0916`` became ``MISC09`` (``inline-if-can-be-used``)
- ``0917`` became ``MISC10`` (``unreachable-code``)
- ``0918`` became ``MISC11`` (``multiline-inline-if``)
- ``0923`` became ``MISC12`` (``unnecessary-string-conversion``)  # TODO: COND?
- ``0924`` became ``MISC13`` (``expression-can-be-simplified``)  # TODO: COND?
- ``0925`` became ``MISC14`` (``misplaced-negative-condition``)  # TODO: COND?

Miscellaneous keyword related rules are now grouped under 'KW' group:

- ``10001`` became ``KW01`` (``sleep-keyword-used``)
- ``10002`` became ``KW02`` (``not-allowed-keyword``)
- ``10003`` became ``KW03`` (``no-embedded-keyword-arguments``)
- ``10101`` became ``KW04`` (``unused-keyword``)

Order related rules (except imports) are now grouped under 'ORD' group:

- ``0927`` became ``ORD01`` (``test-case-section-out-of-order``)
- ``0928`` became ``ORD02`` (``keyword-section-out-of-order``)

New disabler syntax (#1313)
---------------------------

We have normalized Robocop and Robotidy disablers several releases ago, but old syntax was still allowed. We are now
deprecating it for good. Due to merge and deprecation of Robotidy, we also deprecate ``robotidy`` directive.

Currently supported syntax for linter::

    # noqa
    # robocop: off
    # robocop: on

And formatter::

    # fmt: off
    # fmt: on
    # robocop: fmt: off
    # robocop: fmt: on

Deprecated syntax:

    # robotidy: on
    # robotidy: off
    # robocop: enable
    # robocop: disable

New syntax still supports disabling selected rules or formatters (``# robocop: off=rule_name``).

New features & other changes
============================

Multiple configuration files
-----------------------------

Robocop can now use multiple configuration files. With the following example::

    project/
        file1.robot
        pyproject.toml  # config1
        subdir/
            file1.robot
            file2.robot
            pyproject.toml  # config2, excludes file1.robot

We will end up with the following files:

- project/file1.robot, using config1 configuration
- project/file2.robot, using config2 configuration

This feature allow to apply different configuration (for example exclude specific rules in the directory) for all
directories in your project.

Note that settings that affect whole run (reports or flags such as ``--persistent`` or ``--exit-zero``) are only
loaded from the file which is closest to the current working directory or from the cli. Multiple configuration files
are usually best to use for rules and formatters configuration.

Print Issues report
--------------------

Reporting linter issues is now handled by ``print_issues`` report. It's an internal report, enabled by default.
Thanks for this change it is easier to handle different types of outputs or even completely silence linter output.

There are 3 different output formats supported by ``print_issues``:

- extended, new default. It prints source code alongside the issue::

    test.robot:10:10 ARG03 Undefined argument default, use ${baz}=${EMPTY} instead
        |
      8 |     ...  ${foo}
      9 |     ...  ${bar}=123
     10 |     ...  ${baz}=
        |          ^^^^^^^ ARG03
     11 |     ...  ${lorum}=${ipsum}
     12 |     No Operation
        |

- grouped. It groups issues for each source file::

    tests\linter\rules\tags\unnecessary_default_tags\test.robot:
      3:1 0607 Tags defined in Default Tags are always overwritten (unnecessary-default-tags)
      4:1 1003 Invalid number of empty lines between sections (1/2) (empty-lines-between-sections)

    tests\linter\rules\tags\tag_already_set_in_test_tags\keyword_tag.robot:
      3:1 0319 'Force Tags' is deprecated since Robot Framework version 6.0, use 'Test Tags' instead (deprecated-statement)

- simple, previous default. It print issue location and message in one line::

    test.robot:3:30 [E] ARG03 Undefined argument default, use ${bar}=${EMPTY} instead
    test.robot:10:10 [E] ARG03 Undefined argument default, use ${baz}=${EMPTY} instead

You can change output format by configuring ``print_issues`` report::

    robocop check --configure print_issues.output_format=grouped

Official style guide support
----------------------------

Support for Robot Framework official style guide: https://docs.robotframework.org/docs/style_guide .

It includes updating our rules and formatters to align with recommendations from the style guide, cross referencing
between Robocop and Style Guide documentation and adding missing rules.

You can list all rules that refer to official style guide rule::

    robocop list rules --filter STYLE_GUIDE

It is ongoing process and there will be more updates in upcoming versions of Robocop.

Integrations with other platforms
---------------------------------

Robocop could be already integrated with different CI/CD platforms. It wasn't fully documented and sometimes it could
require parsing output file. That's why we have decided to focus on improving how Robocop linting results can be
integrated with other tools.

Documentation is available at X # TODO .

We are now supporting following integrations:

- Gitlab Code Quality (with ``gitlab`` report) (#1116)
- ... and more - see the `Integrations` documentation

Shell autocompletion
---------------------

You can now use shell autocompletion by installing it for the current shell::

    robocop --install-completion

Filter rules by target version (#1296)
--------------------------------------

You can now filter out rules using ``--target-version`` same as formatter (robotidy) previously.

With following command::

    robocop check --target-version 5

Only rules compatible with Robot Framework 5 or lower will be enabled.

Since target version is now shared option, it needs to be configured in common section::

    [tool.robocop]
    target_version = 5

    [tool.robocop.lint]
    [tool.robocop.format]
    # previously it could be only configured in format

New rules and rule updates
===========================

Ignore built in tags in tag rules (#1166)
-----------------------------------------

TAG05 ``could-be-test-tags`` and TAG10 ``could-be-keyword-tags`` will now ignore builtin tags.
Following code will not warn anymore that builtin tag (robot:private) should be set in Keyword or Test Tags::

    *** Keywords ***
    Keyword
        [Tags]  robot:flatten    robot:private
        No Operation

    Keyword 2
        [Tags]  robot:flatten    robot:private
        No Operation

Fixes
=====

Missing conditions cause parsing exception
-------------------------------------------

Missing condition caused Robocop to throw an exception when ``expression_can_be_simplified`` rule was enabled.

Example of code that is now properly handled::

    *** Keywords ***
    Keyword
        ${variable}    Set Variable If
        IF
        END


Not all settings used in invalid scope are reported (#1284)
-----------------------------------------------------------

Following code will now report invalid ``[Metadata]`` setting use::

    *** Keywords ***
        [Invalid]    reported before
        [Metadata]    not reported
        Keyword

Not enough whitespace error is reported instead of invalid setting (#1286)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Following code will now report ``invalid-setting`` instead off ``not-enough-whitespace-after-suite-setting``::

    *** Test Cases ***
    Keyword
        [Doc Umentation]

Hyphen in variable name rule not reported for Variables section (#1086)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

VAR09 ``hyphen-in-variable-name`` is now reported also inside ``*** Variables ***`` sections and settings.

Arguments overwritten in a conditional statement raised argument-overwritten-before-usage (#1109)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Following code will now not report ARG02 ``argument-overwritten-before-usage``::

    Argument Conditionally Overwritten
        [Documentation]    It should be ignored as it's not always overwritten.
        [Arguments]    ${to_print}    ${another_arg}
        IF    ${another_arg} != "KEEP"
            VAR    ${to_print}    "overwrite"
        END
        Log To Console    ${to_print}

Unused arguments / variable rules not detecting extended variable syntax (#1111)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ARG01 ``unused-argument`` and VAR02 ``unused-variable`` rules will now properly detect usage of variables in following
cases::

    *** Keywords ***
    Extended Variable Syntax
        [Arguments]    ${arg1}    ${arg2}    ${arg3}    ${arg4}    ${arg5}    ${arg6}
        Log    ${arg1 + "test"}
        Log    ${arg2 * 3}
        Log    ${arg3[1]}
        Log    ${arg4 == "test"}
        Log    ${arg5 == arg6}
        ${var1}    ${var2}    ${var3}    ${var4}    ${var5}    ${var6}    ${var7}    ${vaR8}    ${var9}    Keyword Call
        Log    ${var1 + "test"}
        Log    ${var2 * 3}
        Log    ${var3[1]}
        Log    ${var4 == "test"}
        Log    ${var5 == var6}
        Log    ${VAR7[1]}
        Log    ${var5 == var8}
        Log    ${var9.attribute}

Unused arguments / variable rules not detecting usage in EXCEPT branch (#1280)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ARG01 ``unused-argument`` and VAR02 ``unused-variable`` rules will now properly detect usage of variables in EXCEPT
branch::

    Used in EXCEPT branch
        [Arguments]    ${arg1}    ${arg2}    ${arg3}    ${arg4}    ${arg5}    ${arg6}    ${arg7}
        TRY
            May Fail    ${arg1}
        EXCEPT    ${arg2}
            No Operation
        EXCEPT    ${arg3}    ${arg4}
            No Operation
        EXCEPT    Error    AS    ${arg5}  # used variable, overwrites, should raise overwrite of unused
            Use    ${arg5}
        EXCEPT    Error    AS    ${arg6}  # unused variable, overwrites, should raise overwrite of unused
            No Operation
        END
        TRY
            Some Keyword
        EXCEPT    ValueError: .*    type=${arg7}
            No Operation
        END

Variable usage falsely marked for IF headers and other branches (#1304)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

If the variable was declared inside IF branch and the same variable name was used as the IF header, it would be marked
as used. Similarly if any of the IF branches used variable, all instances of this variable inside IF were marked as
used.

Following code will now properly raise issues::

    *** Keywords ***
    Used in one branch and header
        IF    condition
            ${var}    Keyword  # not used
        ELSE IF    ${var}
            ${var}    Keyword
            Log    ${var}
        END
        IF    condition
            ${var2}    Keyword
            Log    ${var2}
        ELSE IF    ${var2}
            ${var2}    Keyword  # not used
        END

Variable usage in nested FOR loops (#1148)
------------------------------------------

If FOR/WHILE loop contained another loop, variables used before it were not marked as used.

Following code will now not raise an issue::

    *** Keywords ***
    Double FOR loops
        VAR    ${continuation_token}    value
        FOR    ${i}    IN RANGE    ${{ int($retries)+1 }}
            ${response}    Get Events    ${continuation_token}
            FOR    ${_}    IN    @{response}[events]
                No Operation
            END
            VAR    ${continuation_token}    ${response}[continuationToken]
        END

non-local-variables-should-be-uppercase with variable in name (#1139)
---------------------------------------------------------------------

If non-local variable used another variable as name, it was incorrectly reported as non-local.

Following code will now not raise an issue::

    *** Keywords ***
    ${name}    "MY UPPERCASE VARIABLE NAME"
    Set Global Variable     ${${name}}      "My variable value"
    Set Global Variable     ${${name}_VAR}      "My variable value"  # non variable parts still needs to be upper case

Since we don't track variable values in linting, we do not check if ``${name}`` use upper case or not - such cases
are ignored.
