:orphan:

=============
Robocop 6.1.0
=============

Formatting changes
==================
NormalizeAssignments support for VAR (#1382)
--------------------------------------------

``NormalizeAssignments`` formatter now supports VAR. VAR allows to use assignment character in similar fashion as
keyword calls. Following code is valid::

    VAR    ${variable} =  value
    VAR    ${variable}=   value
    VAR    ${variable}    value=

``NormalizeAssignments`` can now normalize assignments as it was already possible for keyword calls, configurable with
``equal_sign_type`` parameter:

- autodetect (default) - use most common assignment character in current file
- remove - do not use ``=`` character
- equal_sign - use ``=``
- space_and_equal_sign - use `` =``

ReplaceWithVAR matches original assignment character ``=`` (#1381)
-----------------------------------------------------------------

``ReplaceWithVAR`` formatter removed assignment chars when converting keywords::

    ${dict}=    Create Dictionary    key=value

    VAR    &{dict}    key=value

Assignment character are now preserved. They can be removed / changed using ``NormalizeAssignments`` formatter.

Fixes
=====

could-be-test-tags and could-be-keyword-tags are not deterministic (#1377)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Output of TAG5 ``could-be-test-tags`` and TAG10 ``could-be-keyword-tags`` should be now deterministic and print
tags in alphabetical order.

Some options are not recognized when used with hyphens (#1378)
---------------------------------------------------------------

It should be possible to use both variants of options in configuration file - with underscores or with hyphens (
``target_version`` or ``target-version``).

Options with hyphens in name are ignored by migrate command (#1378)
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Migrate command will now correctly convert option names that uses hyphens. For example ``ext-rules`` will be converted
to ``custom_rules``.

Formatting does not overwrite files by default
----------------------------------------------

Following command::

    robocop format

did not overwrite files by default and required ``--overwrite`` flag. It was not expected behaviour and is now fixed.

Acknowledgements
================

Thanks to the whole community for submitting bug reports and feature requests.
Without you, Robocop wouldn't be in the place where it is now. All the feedback
is essential to drive the tool towards higher quality and better user
experience.

If you want to help us more, consider contributing to the project directly.
We can offer our constant support to make the work fun and effective. We do
our best to create a supportive and welcoming environment for everyone.
Feel free to ping us on our official `#robocop-linter Slack channel`_ anytime.

.. _#robocop-linter Slack channel: https://robotframework.slack.com/archives/C01AWSNKC2H