:orphan:

=============
Robocop 6.1.1
=============

Set Variable ignored by replace-set-variable-with-var rule (#1178)
------------------------------------------------------------------

``replace-set-variable-with-var`` (DEPR05) rule raise issue when ``Set Variable`` variant is used instead of VAR
syntax. It did not recognize basic ``Set Variable`` form though (only other forms, such as ``Set Local Variable``,
``Set Global Variable``..). It should now work properly. Since ``Set Variable`` is one of the most often used
keywords it may lead to increased amount of issues after upgrading to this version.

Incorrect language setting in formatter was silently ignored (#1387)
--------------------------------------------------------------------

When configuring Robocop with invalid language (for example ``ple`` instead of ``pl``) Robocop issued decoding error
for each file instead of failing when reading the configuration file.

Our documentation also contained configuration examples with non-existing languages, which is now fixed.

Decoding errors do not display error message when linting (#1387)
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Robocop issues decoding error when the Robot Framework fails to read the file. However had different behaviour for the
linter and formatter:

- linter only displayed simplified message
- formatter displayer error message which could be used to pinpoint what's the issue with the file or configuration

Output is not colorized with --diff option (#1389)
--------------------------------------------------

Robocop format should now colorize output when displaying differences before and after formatting.
``--color`` option should be now respected and will allow to disable colorized output:

- ``--no-color`` in the command line
- or ``color = false`` in ``tool.robocop.format`` section of the configuration file

Invalid issue positions in SonarQube report (#1391)
---------------------------------------------------

Fixed issues with issue positions in SonarQube:

- SonarQube doesn't accept identical start and end position. It was usually issue reported for whole file (
  for example missing suite documentation). In such cases we are now only reporting startLine
- column position was offset by 1 (Robocop use 1 as start position, where SonarQube uses 0)
