comments.robot:32:1 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
comments.robot:47:1 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:20:4 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:21:5 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:41:9 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:43:10 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:44:6 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:47:1 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:49:5 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:116:4 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:123:1 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:131:13 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:133:9 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:134:5 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:144:13 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:146:13 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:147:9 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:148:5 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:150:1 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:160:13 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:162:14 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:163:9 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:164:5 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:165:5 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:167:1 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:169:3 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:171:1 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:181:13 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:183:13 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:184:9 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:185:5 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block
test.robot:187:1 [E] 1008 Indent expected. Provide 2 or more spaces of indentation for statements inside block