comments.robot:32:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
comments.robot:47:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:20:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:21:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:41:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:43:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:44:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:47:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:49:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:116:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:123:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:131:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:133:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:134:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:144:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:146:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:147:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:148:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:150:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:160:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:162:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:163:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:164:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:165:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:167:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:169:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:171:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:181:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:183:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:184:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:185:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block
test.robot:187:1 [E] SPC17 Not enough indentation inside block